As you saw in the strategy update from Alastair Marsh, we are now entering the most important phase of our strategy development making it happen. Having aligned our business aspirations and strategic framework through the shape and learn phase so ably-led by John Wilford, we are now focusing on bringing this to life and the steps we need to take to make our aspirations a reality. With this in mind, I want to update you on two key senior appointments: - Elaine Roberts – Group Marketing Director Elaine Roberts will be joining the LR Executive Leadership Team (ELT) as Group Marketing Director. Elaine will be responsible for overseeing all of our external marketing, communications and sales activity, ensuring we continue to build on our aspiration to become truly customer focused.  Elaine is currently Chief Marketing Officer at BCA and has previously held senior Marketing roles at Centrica (British Gas); Vodafone and Motorola. Prior to that, Elaine was in the British Army where her postings included roles specialising in high technology weapons systems. She has a BSc in Mechanical Engineering and an MSc in Defence Technology and is also a trustee of Engineering UK, a body that promotes engineering and technology careers to young people. Elaine will join us in August 2016 and report directly to Alastair Marsh. Both Mark Stokes, Group Communications Director, and Mike Robinson, Group Customer Strategy Director, will report into Elaine and she will work closely with all of the business stream marketing, communications and sales teams. Joanna Townsend – Strategy Implementation Programme Director  Joanna Townsend, currently Regional Director for EMEA, has been appointed to lead our strategy implementation work. In her new role as Strategy Implementation Programme Director, Joanna will have overall project management responsibility for all of our strategy implementation activity, ensuring we meet our objectives, allocate the appropriate resources, manage risk and fully track our progress. Reporting directly to Alastair Marsh, and working closely with Mary Waldner and John Wilford, a key part of Joanna’s role will be working collaboratively with our business streams, areas, functions, dedicated initiative leads and external consultants KMPG Boxwood, to ensure we are coordinated and effective in our delivery approach. Over the coming weeks, Joanna will be appointing a small team of colleagues to support her and working closely with John Wilford to ensure a smooth transition into implementation.  We will continue to keep you informed of developments over the coming weeks and months. Please join me in wishing both Elaine and Joanna every success in their new roles. There has been much informal discussion in our offices around whether or not the Lloyd’s Register teams in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire will in fact be moving to Prime Four next year, given the challenging economic climate we find ourselves in. I wanted to address these concerns and confirm that nothing has changed, we are still moving to the new office facility in Kingswells in 2017. Construction is well underway and I have attached photos showing the progress. A full gallery of photos can be found on our Aberdeen Colocation Project team site. We acknowledge that this is a significant investment, particularly given the current financial constraints our business faces, but we are fully committed to completing the build of the office and to moving our North-east of Scotland team into the facility by the end of 2017. This is an investment for the future. One of the key drivers behind building a new office is to bring our teams together under one roof – we can not only realise greater efficiencies by having everyone together, we will also provide much greater opportunities for collaboration. The costs incurred by operating three separate offices in the region are substantial and investing in a new, efficient, environmentally friendly facility is a significant step forward.  We appreciate that when the building was designed, we had a higher workforce and that the plans were created with capacity for additional growth – we can accommodate around 900 people in the space. While no one can accurately predict what the market will be like in the next 12 to 18 months and how many people we will move into Prime Four, it is likely to be significantly less than we initially anticipated. However, when the market improves – and it will – we will require to upskill and we will have the space required to accommodate our additional colleagues. In the meantime, we are considering options with regards to the extra space we are unlikely to require when we relocate. These may include not completing the internal fit-out of particular areas, delaying this expenditure until the space is required, or there is the option to sub-let unused sections of the building. Nothing has been decided. But completion of the building is on schedule and we will be moving into the new office at Prime Four in Q3-4 2017. In addition to speculation around whether or not we will move to Kingswells, there have been particular concerns around the ways of working we will implement following our relocation. The previous communications around this matter were premature as this was done before the implications of the Group policies on working practices for the Kingswells building were fully appreciated. We will be adopting the same flexible working practices as all other new, large LR facilities. This will mean the majority of staff will not have their own dedicated desk. There will be exceptions where particular equipment or IS systems are required for an individual to carry out their role or where a person requires certain facilities for health reasons, but everyone else will be ‘flexible desking’ within their own neighbourhoods in the building. These neighbourhoods will be designed taking into account the different requirements of the teams which will be operating within them and will have a high degree of flexibility in how they work. In addition to overwhelming support and positive feedback from those already working in this way in other LR locations, there are many publicised benefits about this flexible way of working. This includes allowing colleagues to meet and work alongside people they would never usually work with – this should go some way to reducing the number of silos which exist both within LR and within LR Senergy – and encouraging collaboration. There will be no offices for senior managers - we will all work alongside each other. The building design includes many breakout and collaboration spaces where people can choose to work from – there are spaces for small meetings, large meetings, brainstorming sessions and quiet areas for individuals to work independently or make private calls. It’s a truly modern way of working – and one which has also been embraced by a number of major Operators. Flexible desks make a lot of sense when you consider the diverse way our teams are made up – from offshore workers to contractors and from part-time employees to those who travel frequently – there is no need to have a permanent desk for every employee when it will not be utilised 100% of the time. There will be a clear desk policy – desks will require to be cleared at the end of each working day and belongings put into an individual’s personal pedestal or locker. Anything left on desks, will be cleared by cleaning/security teams and will need to be collected from storage the next day. This will promote a far more environmentally efficient way of working, with many people less inclined to print unless necessary and paper that’s no longer needed should be recycled instead of gathering dust on a permanent desk. This is still well over a year away and there will be other ways of working and practices communicated nearer the move – but I wanted to provide a clear update around these issues due to the many queries and rumours that have been circulating.  We acknowledge this will be a significant change and I appreciate your cooperation – any comments/queries will be welcomed on the Aberdeen Colocation Project Yammer feed. Further to Alastair Marsh’s message confirming my permanent appointment as Energy Director, I wanted to share with you my continuing thoughts on how we take forward the Energy business in these very challenging times. As you are all aware, the Energy leadership team has been confirmed and we will have management structures for each of our business streams confirmed by the end of April. The Commercial Development and support services structures have been shared with you via recent webinars as you know, and we plan to share our Operations and Consulting structures with you on Wednesday, 4 May – save the date as dial-in details will be with you shortly. Ahead of this, I am very pleased to announce that Karl Ove Ingebrigtsen has accepted the Power Generation Director position. Karl Ove is currently Senior Vice President of our Consulting business, based in Norway. He has extensive experience within risk and safety management in the oil and gas, transportation and public sectors – and has been with LR, and the heritage Scandpower business, for over 25 years. Karl Ove will share more about his plans for this exciting new business line with you in due course.  Our immediate priority has been to confirm our strategy and team structures, in a relatively short time period. In addition to restructuring our current Energy business, we are integrating a large company in LR Senergy and one which brings with it a level of operations – and operational risk. This has brought its own challenges but these are challenges we are addressing and this is testament to the sea-change coming within the organisation to become more agile and responsive. We will share further updates on our strategic plans for the next financial year in due course but rest assured our reshaped Energy organisation, including the integrated LR Senergy team, will be in place for the beginning of the new financial year on 1 July. You don’t need me to tell you that we are operating in an exceptionally tough market which has had a significant effect on our revenues and that this has led to some difficult decisions having to be made both within the current Energy business and within LR Senergy, with subsequent cost cutting initiatives ongoing. I would like to take this opportunity to let you know that we very much appreciate the support and commitment you have continued to provide during this difficult time.  In parallel to the Energy reshape, I am very pleased to have been involved in delivering the recent LR Group strategy town halls and the subsequent informal coffee talk sessions. The feedback provided by all of you during these global sessions, has been collated and was discussed during the recent Global Leadership Summit (GLS), at which 150 of the Group’s leaders gathered to kick-off the ‘making it happen’ phase of implementation. I was encouraged by the level of interaction generated during the gatherings I was involved with and thank you all for your inputs.  The findings from these strategy sessions and the subsequent discussions at the GLS have now been shared with you by Alastair Marsh as you know. To reiterate a few of the key points, I would like to assure you that we do have a strong, robust business plan in place to ensure we are in the best possible place for future success. The fact this plan has been fully supported by our business leaders is testament to our confidence that our new strategy is the best way forward and will position us strongly when market conditions recover, which they will. As per Alastair’s message, you will also be aware that we are establishing a small internal team to drive forward the implementation of our strategy programme, with support from external consultant, KPMG Boxwood. The key to successful strategy is implementation and this is our main focus at this time. Once again I would like to thank you for your hard work and understanding as we continue to react to the testing economic conditions we find ourselves in and I look forward to sharing more about our plans with you, in due course. 
