Good morning. It is absolutely right to divide our policies, Sir Roderic, up into two separate parts; up to September 11, after September 11. Up to September 11, Saddam was still a problem, a major problem, the sanctions framework was eroding, there were continual breaches of the No Fly Zone, we were actually worried about enforcing the No Fly Zone. You have probably seen correspondence from Robin Cook at the time to me about that. There was an attempt to put in place a different form of sanctions, these so-called smart sanctions, and perhaps we can come to that in a detail a little later, and, of course, the very first military action I had taken was from President Clinton, back in 1998, against Saddam. Yes. That's actually a very important moment as well, but, however, I think I would fairly describe our policy up to September 11 as doing our best, hoping for the best, but with a different calculus of risk assessment; in other words, up to September 11, we thought he was a risk but we thought it was worth trying to contain it. The crucial thing after September 11 is that the calculus of risk changed. I think the way I would put it is this: that the sanctions were obviously eroding, we couldn't get support for them. This so-called smart sanctions framework, we actually, prior to September 11, couldn't get support for at that time. So we were in a bit of a difficulty there, and, of course, the fact is that Saddam - as I say, we had taken military action in 1998. There was a very long history, of course, of the dealings with Saddam. One of the things I have done for the purpose of the Inquiry is go back through my speeches prior to September 11 and - I mean, I have actually got one or two of them here, but it is actually quite interesting. Let me summarise their impact then. Their impact is, regularly, through 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001, I am saying Saddam must comply with the UN Resolutions and force is an option, but all of this, frankly, was in circumstances where this wasn't the top priority for us, and I remember at the very first meeting that we had, myself and President Bush, in February 2001, just after he had come to power as President of the United States, we dealt with Iraq with Colin Powell, but it was very much in the context of trying to get a different sanctions framework in place. Yes, but the holes were quite substantial. Yes, but the critical thing - Sir Roderic, forgive me for interrupting, but it is absolutely essential to realise this: if September 11 hadn't happened, our assessment of the risk of allowing Saddam any possibility of him reconstituting his programmes would not have been the same. But after September 11 - and if you would like me to now, I will explain what a difference that made to the thinking - after September 11, our view, the American view, changed, and changed dramatically. Straight after 9/11, in the statement of made to the House of Commons, just a few days after, I think on 14 September, I specifically deal with this issue, to do with weapons of mass destruction and the danger of the link with terrorism. Here is what changed for me the whole calculus of risk. It was my view then, it remains my view now. The point about this terrorist act was that over 3,000 people had been killed on the streets of New York, an absolutely horrific event, but this is what really changed my perception of risk, the calculus of risk for me: if those people, inspired by this religious fanaticism could have killed 30,000, they would have. For those of us who dealt with terrorism from the IRA, and, incidentally, I don't want to minimise the impact of that terrorism; each act of terrorism is wicked and wrong and to be deplored. But the terrorism that an organisation like the IRA were engaged in was terrorism directed towards a political purpose, maybe unjustified, but it was within a certain framework that you could understand. The point about this act in New York was that, had they been able to kill even more people than those 3,000, they would have, and so, after that time, my view was you could not take risks with this issue at all, and one dimension of it, because we were advised, obviously, that these people would use chemical or biological weapons or a nuclear device, if they could get hold of them - that completely changed our assessment of where the risks for security lay, and just so that we make this absolutely clear, this was not an American position, this was my position and the British position, very, very clearly, and so, from September 11 onwards - we obviously had to deal with Afghanistan, but from that moment, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Iraq, the machinery, as you know, of AQ Khan, who was the former Pakistani nuclear scientist and who had been engaged in illicit activities and in distributing this material, all of this had to be brought to an end. I think Jack puts it absolutely accurately in his letter to me. It wasn't that objectively he had done more, it is that our perception of the risk had shifted, and the reason for dealing with Iraq - and I think I said this at the time - was because it was Iraq that was in breach of the United Nations Resolutions, had ten years of defiance and I felt, we felt, it was important that we make it absolutely clear he has to come back into compliance. Yes, I think this is a really important point, actually, and I have looked at it quite carefully, because I did at the time - and it is really worth reflecting on for a moment now - and that is the nature of this replacement sanctions framework. We know Saddam had effectively corroded he support for the previous sanctions. He was - on some accounts the sums of money varied, but there were billions of dollars that were basically being illicitly used by Iraq. Frankly, what he had done - because we gave him the money to buy food and medicines for his people, but he was deliberately not giving them the food or the medicines in the way he should have, and this meant, for example, as I think Clare Short pointed out to me in early 2003, the mortality rate for children under five in Iraq was worse than the Congo. Extremely unpopular, and he had been successful - wholly dishonestly, I may say, but successful in blaming the west for the sanctions. Now, the issue was whether this successor, so-called smart sanctions regime or framework would be a valid way of containing him. It is worth just going to the - and I think - but forgive me if I mention a document and if you haven't - but I think you have got the options paper we got before - Right. Maybe I will just say what it told me. Let me just then summarise the effect of it, because it dealt specifically, as one of the options, with this issue of containment, and it described it as a least worst option. If you read the paper, what they are saying is, it is possible it might work, but, equally, it is possible it won't. But here is a point that I think is really, really important on the so-called smart sanctions, that there was then, following that paper, a whole series of government discussions about these smart sanctions. Each of them were indicating that they might work but they could give no guarantee of it working. The previous regime had obviously not yielded - the previous sanctions framework had not yielded the benefits that we thought, in terms of sustainability, and the thing that I think is very important about this is the paper which I think has been declassified, because I think that was done just yesterday, which is about Iraq, the new policy framework. This is the paper on 7 March 2001. The Iraq new policy framework describes the arrangements that would apply on this so-called smart sanctions framework and, I just want to draw attention to one, because the whole issue about the previous sanctions eroding had been Saddam's ability to get stuff in through the borders of the surrounding countries, and, therefore, one very important part of this new sanctions framework was for border monitoring, a limited number of border crossings into Iraq from Jordan, Syria, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Iran. So the idea was, in this new sanctions arrangement, to make sure that you sealed off the borders around Iraq so that it was more effective. The important thing to realise is that, when we then came, post-September 11 and finally adopted this United Nations Resolution - and I think it is United Nations Resolution 1409 - the tightening of the borders had been dropped. We couldn't get the Russians on board unless we dropped it. So the very thing that, even back then, people were warning me, even with this tightening of the borders, it might work, it might not, that tightening restriction had been dropped by the time you get to May 2002. Therefore, you can still argue, I guess, that this sanctions framework would have been successful, but I think I would say it is as least as persuasive an argument that it wouldn't have been. What I felt was exactly what I was being advised, and I think the common sense of it might have worked, it might not have worked, but it was at least as likely, if not more likely, I would say, that it wouldn't work. Sir Roderic, if I just make this point, because I think you very fairly draw attention to the range of different measures. The No Fly Zones were causing us difficulty and the trade sanctions were a vital part of stopping him getting material in to reconstitute WMD programmes, because, remember, the whole point about this new sanctions framework is that we were going to move from, effectively, "We will tell you what you can have in", to a different framework, which is actually, in many ways, much weaker, of course, which is to say, "You can have in whatever you like, apart from these 300 items on the so-called goods review list". So the trade sanctions part of this, which we know he had been breaking under the previous regime was not a peripheral, but an essential part of that sanctions framework being valid, and so the problem was - I mean, an accurate summary of the position - I don't think anyone could really dispute this at the time - is that containment through sanctions had basically been eroding, we now had a new sanctions framework, but this new sanctions framework, to get it through the UN had been watered down in the absolutely vital component of the trade restrictions. I don't know whether it is maybe worth actually sending you - there's this book by someone called Ken Pollock, who has written specifically on the sanctions framework and Saddam, and what he does when he comes to these so-called smart sanctions is he said there were seven pre-conditions for the smart sanctions to work, and then he goes on to explain why none of them would actually have happened. That is the reason we called for the options paper. I mean, the options were basically these: we had taken a decision, post-September 11, that this issue had been to be confronted and there were a number of different ways it could be confronted. It could be confronted by an effective sanctions framework, it could be confronted by Saddam allowing the inspectors back in to do their work properly and compliance with the UN Resolutions, or, in the final analysis, if he was not prepared - if sanctions could not contain him and he was not prepared to allow the UN inspectors back in, then the option of removing Saddam was there. That option, incidentally, had always been there. After September 11 what changed, as I say, was our calculation, mine and I think the Americans' as well, that we couldn't go on like this. Obviously we were talking - I was speaking very closely with Jack Straw, with those who were advising me at the time, we were talking obviously to the Ministry of Defence people and the Defence Secretary as well, and we were trying to get an assessment - that's why, as I say, there was a lot of discussion inside government: is this new sanctions framework really going to do it or not, is it going to be effective? As I say, I think the conclusion was, in the end, you certainly couldn't rely on it. We had a meeting, I think - the options paper was given to us before the meeting with President Bush, and then I think - I'm not sure whether it was before or shortly after, but I can look it up for you. I think we then had a meeting of the key people to decide where we were then going to go. We did have a very structured debate with the people. I mean, the fact that it happened at Chequers rather than Downing Street I don't think is particularly relevant to it, but I think the simple answer is: did we consider those other options? Absolutely. That's why we had the paper drawn up. The one thing I found throughout this whole matter from a very early stage is that I was never short of people challenging me on it. There were people within the Cabinet, obviously; for example, Robin Cook and from time to time Clare Short. No, they weren't, but we discussed this, obviously, prior to the invasion of Iraq. I think there were no fewer than 24 different Cabinet meetings. This was a topic that was right through the mainstream - We didn't discuss the options paper specifically in Cabinet. But the discussion that we had in Cabinet was substantive discussion. We had it again and again and again, and the options were very simple. The options were: a sanctions framework that was effective; alternatively, the UN inspectors doing the job; alternatively, you have to remove Saddam. Those were the options. Well, the downside arguments - and this was partly from, for example - you know, I was reading telegrams coming in from ambassadors abroad and so on. The downside arguments were obviously going to be that, not merely is military action always something that you should consider only as a last resort, but there were issues to do with relationships in the Muslim world, there were issues to do with what the effect would be in the Arab world and so on. But what you find in these situations is that you will get a range of different views. Some people were saying, "You must not, on any account, contemplate military action", other people were saying, "It is time you acted". So, for example, in - I think it was in mid-2002, the Conservative Party put out a paper saying, "This is why Saddam is a threat and we have to act". Other people were saying, I think the Liberal Democrats were saying, "He may be a threat but you should rule out military action". So it is not as if we weren't getting the full range of views. We got the full range of views from the very beginning. The trouble was, we had to take a decision, and my decision was that we could not afford to have this situation go on. How we then dealt with it, however, was an open question. Most of the advice was a worry about a humanitarian catastrophe if Saddam was removed. There was advice - and I actually called for papers on this, I think a little bit later - on what the Sunni Shia relationship would be. That was obviously an issue. It was an issue we raised within our own deliberations with the Americans and elsewhere. So all of these things were factors that we had to take into account, but the primary consideration for me was to send an absolutely powerful, clear and unremitting message that, after September 11, if you were a regime engaged in WMD, you had to stop. No, the absolutely key issue was the WMD issue, but I think it is just worth at this point - and then I will come specifically to the text of this speech and deal with this notion that somehow in Crawford I shifted our position. Wasn't that the day after the Crawford meeting? Okay. Let me make it quite clear. In the Chicago speech, in 1999, what I was doing was setting out very clearly what I thought the consequences were of an interdependent world, and what I was really saying was this: that whereas in the past people might have thought that a security problem in one part of the world can be divorced from its impact on another part, in the world that was developing, we were no longer able to do that, not financially, not in terms of security, not in terms, actually, of the cultural issues. In other words, as a result of an interdependent world, it then became in our self-interest, not as part simply of some moral cause, but in our self-interest to regard ourselves as affected by what was happening in a different part of the world. I actually have the Chicago speech here if you want me to refer to it. It is quite important to make this point. Yes, because, if you read the speech, you will see very clearly that the basis for what I'm saying is not that I now believe that we should apply, rather than a test of national interest, a moral test - I mean, I think there are moral issues to do with dictators and so on. What I was saying was that, from now on, in the new world that is developing, we should realise that it is in our national interest to understand that the problem in a different part of the world can come back and hit us in ours. The reason why I was so strongly in favour of action in Kosovo, action, incidentally, to rescue an essentially Muslim population from persecution by a country that was a Christian country, was not simply that I felt affronted, as I think people should and did do, about the prospect of ethnic cleansing, but also because I was convinced that the consequences of allowing such an action to go unchecked would never stay at the borders of the Balkans. So that's the basis of it. When we then come to the Texas speech, it is not that I suddenly say, "Now it is regime change, rather than WMD". On the contrary, you quoted a passage - I then go on to say this: "We cannot, of course, intervene in all cases, but where countries are engaged in the terror or WMD business, we should not shrink from confronting them. Some can be offered a way out, a route to respectability. I hope in time that Syria, Iran and even North Korea can accept the need to change their relationships with the outside world. A new relationship is on offer. But they must know that sponsoring terrorism or WMD is unacceptable." Then I go on to deal with Iraq: "As for Iraq, I know some fear precipitate action. They needn't. We will proceed, as we did after September 11, in a calm, measured, sensible but firm way ..." Then I go on: "... but leaving Iraq to develop WMD in flagrant breech of no less than nine separate United Nations Resolutions, refusing still to allow weapons inspectors back to do their work properly, is not an option." I then go on to describe the brutality of Saddam, but then I come back to the issue of WMD. So, for me, the issue was very, very simple: it was about the need to make absolutely clear that from now on you did not defy the international community on WMD. I would like, if I might, also to make one other point, because I have read obviously a lot of the evidence that has been given to you. I think there is a danger that we end up with a very sort of binary distinction between regime change here and WMD here. The truth of the matter is that a regime that is brutal and oppressive, that, for example, has used WMD against its own people, as Saddam did, and had killed tens of thousands of people by the use of chemical weapons, such a regime is a bigger threat, if it has WMD, than one that is otherwise benign. So if you were to look at Iran today, the reason why I take, and still take, a very hard line on Iran and nuclear weapons is not just because of nuclear proliferation, it is because the nature of the Iranian regime makes me even more worried about the prospect of them with a nuclear device. Let me deal with the Fern Britton interview. Sir Roderic, even with all my experience in dealing with interviews, it still indicates that I have got something to learn about it. This was an issue, let me just explain, that was given some weeks before your Inquiry began. No, the actual interview was given some time before. It was recorded some time - No, not before July of last year, but before you began your public hearings. Exactly. The point that I'm making is very simply this: I did not use the words "regime change" in that interview, and I did not in any sense mean to change the basis. Obviously, all I was saying was you couldn't describe the nature of the threat in the same way, if you knew then what you know now, because some of the intelligence about WMD was shown to be wrong. It was in no sense a change of the position, and I just simply say to you, the position was that it was the breach of the United Nations Resolutions on WMD. That was the cause. It was then, and it remains. Sorry, the position on WMD had changed dramatically as a result of September 11. Yes. Look, one of the things that you always have to do in this situation - you are absolutely right to draw attention to it - is you have to, when you are charged with the responsibility of trying to protect your country - and that should be the job of the Prime Minister - you have to take an assessment of risk. Now, my assessment of risk prior to September 11 was that Saddam was a menace, that he was a threat, he was a monster, but we would have to try and make best. If you had asked me prior to September 11, did I have any real belief in his good faith. No, I didn't. Did I really think that a new sanctions framework was going to do the trick? No, I didn't. On the other hand, precisely because the consequence of military action is so great, for me the calculus of risk was, "Look, we are just going to have to do the best we can". After September 11, that changed, and that change, incidentally, I still believe is important for us today because it is the reason today, as I say, I do take such a strong line on Iran or any other nation that tries to develop WMD. We cannot afford, in my view - look, other people may have different views, but in my view, we cannot afford the possibility that nations, particularly nations that are brutal, rogue states, states that take an attitude that is wholly contrary to our way of life, you cannot afford such states to be allowed to develop or proliferate WMD. Well, I would say that the shift really happened straight after September 11. I mean, I think, if I may just quote from - straight after September 11, what I actually said on this issue, when I reflected on the terrorism was: "We know these groups of fanatics are capable of killing without discrimination. The limits on the numbers that they kill, and their methods of killing, are not governed by any sense of morality. The limits are only practical and technical. We know that they would, if they could, go further and use chemical, biological or even nuclear weapons. We know also that there are groups of people, occasionally states, who will trade the technology and capability of such weapons." Then I go on to say that we have been warned and we should act on this warning. I would say it is not really about the President Bush "Axis of Evil" speech or anything else. I think, after September 11, it was clear that this whole thing was in a different framework. We intended to respond by saying, "From now on we have to deal with it". I think these things were sort of conjoined, really. I mean, the fact is it was an appalling regime and we couldn't run the risk of such a regime being allowed to develop WMD. Can I just make one point which I think is quite important as well? Of course, it was President Clinton in 1998 that signed the Iraq Liberation Act and that policy of regime change became the policy of the government. But can I just make this point? Because I think it is very important. If you study the detail of that Act, the reason he comes out for regime change, President Clinton, is because of the breach of the United Nations Resolutions on WMD. So there is a way you can get a sense - and some of this has come in the evidence. As it were, the Americans are for regime change, we are for dealing with WMD. It is more a different way of expressing the same proposition. The Americans in a sense were saying, "We are for regime change because we don't trust he is ever going to give up his WMD ambitions". We were saying, "We have to deal with his WMD ambitions. If that means regime change, so be it". So it wasn't that we kind of came at this from completely different positions. Basically, we were obviously now going - we had the military action in Afghanistan, it was obvious that the American system, indeed our own system, were now going to look at this WMD issue and there was advice on options as to containment and regime change and so on and so forth. So all those options were being explored, and, as I say, following that meeting and before I went to see President Bush, there was quite an intense interaction on this whole issue that Sir Roderic was raising with me about smart sanctions, because I needed to get a sense whether this policy was a - was really going to be a runner or not. Because it was very obvious that the American system certainly wasn't going to rule out military action, and, you know, from a very early stage, I could see coming down the track - I mean straight after September 11, frankly - that there were going to be some very difficult decisions about this in the future. So one of the things that I always tried to do, particularly if we were - if military action was even a possibility and the paper had made it clear it was a possibility, to get the Chief of the Defence Staff right alongside the discussion and the planning and the policy. Yes, the defence - He was laying out again various options on the military side. He was expressing his views. I think Mike Boyce told you about this in his evidence. Well, I remember him being at it. As I say, we got the paper from the Ministry of Defence and that was looking at the various options, but, you know, one of the things that was happening at this time, and I think it is quite important to reflect on this, is that this was very quickly becoming the key issue. People were moving on from Afghanistan. It was always going to be on the agenda, once you had September 11, and, as I say, a different sense from everybody that we had to act, and so we had, you know, a perfectly good discussion about it, and obviously I think from the defence point of view, what CDS and the Ministry of Defence were concerned about was to make sure we got alongside any planning that was going on and did it as quickly as possible. I believe he was, but let me go back and check. Absolutely, Baroness. I think the other thing that was very important to me at this time was to try to get the international community on the same page with the threat and how we dealt with it. You know, straight after September 11, people came together behind America, but I was very aware, right from the early stages of this, that, although the American mindset had changed dramatically, and, frankly, mine had as well, when I talked to other leaders, particularly in Europe, I didn't get the same impression really, and so one thing I was really anxious to do, because we had put together a coalition on Afghanistan, was to try and put together a coalition again to deal with Saddam Hussein. Therefore, the United Nations route, it wasn't just that it was important for all sorts of political reasons, legal reasons and so on, it was - I mean to do with the internal politics of the UK - it was also important to me because I didn't want America to feel that it had no option but to do it on its own. What we intended to achieve at Crawford, frankly, was to get a real sense from the Americans as to what they wanted to do, and this would be best done between myself and President Bush, and really to get a sense of how our own strategy was going to have to evolve in the light of that. There was nothing actually decided, but let me just make one thing clear about this: one thing that is really important, I think, when you are dealing with other leaders, is you establish - and this is particularly important, I think, for the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and the President of the United States - you establish a close and strong relationship. You know, I had it with President Clinton and I had it again with President Bush, and that's important. So some of it you will do in a formal meeting, but it is also important to be able to discuss in a very frank way what the issues were. As I recall that discussion, it was less to do with specifics about what we were going to do on Iraq or, indeed, the Middle East, because the Israel issue was a big, big issue at the time. I think, in fact, I remember, actually, there may have been conversations that we had even with Israelis, the two of us, whilst we were there. So that was a major part of all this. But the principal part of my conversation was really to try and say, "Look, in the end we have got to deal with the various different dimensions of this whole issue". I mean, for me, what had happened after September 11 was that I was starting to look at this whole issue to do with this unrepresentative extremism within Islam in a different way, and I wanted to persuade President Bush, but also get a sense from him as to where he was on that broader issue. The only commitment I gave, and I gave this very openly, at the meeting was a commitment to deal with Saddam. Absolutely, and that wasn't a private commitment, that was a public one. We were agreed on both, actually, as it came to finally, but we were agreed that we had to confront this issue, that Saddam had to come back into compliance with the international community, and, as I think I said in the press conference with President Bush, the method of doing that is open, and indeed he made the same point. I just want to make one other point about this. This was about six months from September 11 and one major part of what President Bush was saying to me was just to express his fear, actually, that, if we weren't prepared to act in a really strong way, then we ran the risk of sending a disastrous signal out to the world. I can't explain why people have come to a view that there was some different commitment given, because I read from time to time people saying things that this was what was agreed at this meeting. What was agreed was actually set out in a very private note from David Manning afterwards, and what I was saying to President Bush - and I wasn't saying this privately, incidentally, I was saying it publicly - was: we are going to be with you in confronting and dealing with this threat. There was no - the one thing I was not doing was dissembling in that position. In fact, I actually have here, at the press conference that President Bush and I gave afterwards, we talked about - I think Israel actually came up first, but then we went on to Iraq and President Bush says: "The Prime Minister and I, of course, talked about Iraq. We both recognised the danger of a man who is willing to kill his own people and harbouring and developing weapons of mass destruction." It then goes on to say that he has got to effectively prove that he is in compliance, and I then say: "You know, it has always been our policy that Iraq would be a better place without Saddam. I don't think anybody should be in any doubt about that for all the reasons I have given", and, you know, the reasons are to do with weapons of mass destruction, also deal with the brutality and repression. So what I say are the reasons are to do with weapons of mass destruction, also to do with the appalling brutality and repression of his own people, but how we proceed in this situation, how we make sure that the threat that is posed by WMD is dealt with. That is a matter that is open. So - and I go on to describe the UN Resolutions. So the position was not a covert position, it was an open position, and, of course, what subsequently the debate was about, in July and then in September at the crucial meeting - I think he took it to mean what I had said both at the press conference and in the meeting, which is that we would be with him in dealing with this threat, and how we dealt with it was an open question, and even at that stage, I was raising the issue of going the UN route. It was the former. Look, this is an alliance that we have with the United States of America. It is not a contract. It is not, "We do this for you, you do this for us". It is an alliance and it is an alliance, I say to you very openly, I believe in passionately. I had been through with President Clinton, Kosovo, and just let me emphasise to you, 85 per cent of the assets we used in Kosovo were American assets. I had real difficulty persuading President Clinton that it was right to go all the way on Kosovo, and he was in a really difficult position and it was an immensely courageous decision he took, because the American people were saying to him, "Look, this place is thousands of miles away from America. Let the Europeans deal with it. It is on their doorstep". It is important to understand this. I don't think he was there at the critical meeting. Yes, but the fact is, at that meeting - and it is, I think, the other evidence that has been given to you, particularly by David Manning, is very clear about this - we were setting out a position, and, as I say, that position was not a private position, it was a public position, but I was just explaining about the American line, because it is important and it is important in understanding my thinking on this. So I had been through this process with President Clinton. When he, with a lot of courage, had committed America. September 11 happened. I never regarded September 11 as an attack on America, I regarded it as an attack on us, and I had said we would stand shoulder to shoulder with them. We did in Afghanistan and I was determined to do that again. I think what he took from that is exactly what he should have taken, which is that, if it came to military action because there was no way of dealing with this diplomatically, we would be with him, and that was absolutely clear, because, as I had set out publicly, not privately, we had to confront this issue, it could be confronted by a sanctions framework that was effective. For the reasons I have given, we didn't have one. It could be confronted by a UN inspections framework - we will come to that - or, alternatively, it would have to be confronted by force. I was going earlier - but I won't do it, but I'm very happy to make available the comments I had made, even prior to September 11 2001, because we had been through this with Saddam several times, 1997, 1998, and so on and so forth. You know, the fact is force was always an option. What changed after September 11 was that, if necessary, and there was no other way of dealing with this threat, we were going to remove him. When you say - did you say for tactical reasons? It wasn't so much for tactical reasons. What I believed was, if you wanted to make a real change to this whole issue - again, this is very important to understanding certainly my strategic thinking, but I think the strategic thinking of many people who looked at this issue. I would probably have a far greater understanding of it today, actually, than even back then. What I believed we confronted was a new threat that was based, not on political ideology, but on religious fanaticism. It was a complete perversion of the proper faith of Islam, but it was real and active, and they demonstrated their intent to kill very large numbers of us if they possibly could. What I was trying to set out, not for tactical reasons, but for deep, strategic reasons, is: what did we need to do to make a successful assault on this ideology that was so dangerous? Therefore, the Middle East peace process for me was not a kind of tactical thing, it was absolutely fundamental, still is in my view, to dealing with this issue. We were of course pushing the UN route. So the American view was regime change, as I say, because they didn't believe Saddam would ever, in good faith, give up his WMD ambitions or programmes. We did have to persuade them, although I think it is fair to say that, even at that meeting, President Bush made it clear that America would have to adjust policy if Saddam let the inspectors back in and the inspectors were able to function properly. Incidentally, if I can just point this out, at several occasions over the next few months, President Bush made it clear to me that, if the UN route worked, then it worked. We would have had to have taken yes for an answer. If we tried the UN route and it failed, then my view was it had to be dealt with. Well, first of all, as I say, I think we should certainly, in order to understand my mindset, avoid this language of trading this policy for that policy. I would not have done Iraq, if I hadn't have thought it was right, full stop, irrespective of the Middle East. However, I believe that resolving the Middle East - this is what I work on now - is immensely important, and I think it was difficult - and this is something I have said before on several occasions - it was difficult to persuade President Bush, and, indeed, America actually, that this was such a fundamental question. The Americans tended to regard these issues as somewhat separate. Now, in mitigation of that, we did eventually, although later than I wanted, get the road map adopted, and the road map was extremely important. Secondly, however - and, again, I know more about this now probably than I would have known then, because of the work I do now - I think, truthfully, with the Intifada still raging in Palestine, it would have been pretty difficult to have got this thing back together again. However, having said that, no, I mean, I was relentless and I was always very frustrated about it, because I believed then, and I believe now, that these are not divisible problems; it is one problem with different facets, and one major facet of the whole problem is this Israel/Palestine conflict. Not because, incidentally, the existence of Israel has provoked this conflict. I totally disagree with people who say that. But the resolution of the conflict would have an enormously beneficial impact on relations with the Muslim world. Well, it was a debate that continued, and I think, you know, you have got a point actually, Sir Roderic. I think that they never - this is something - I think it is different with the American system now, and I think it was different actually at the end of President Bush's time, in fact. The reason he launched the Annapolis peace process was because of this. But I think there was a tendency to see these things separately, and I regarded them, as I say, as all part of the one thing, and, you know, yes, I mean, I said this at the time and I would say it now - I mean, I wished we would have made better and faster progress on the Israel - No, because it wouldn't be right to do that either. You should only take the action in respect of Iraq if you think it is intrinsically valid in its own terms. Having said that, my whole construct was to get as broad a coalition as possible, and I thought that if we managed to get the peace process really pushing forward, we were more likely to get a broader and deeper coalition. Well I was certainly saying to him, "I think this is vital", and I mean, this was - you could describe me as a broken record through that period, and actually, after September 11, I think that straight after September 11, again in the statement to the House of Commons in the speech I made to my party conference at the end of September 2001, you know, I had and I have a view. It is why I think, if we want to deal with Iran today - and you have got very similar issues to the ones we are discussing here, which is why learning the lessons of this is so important - again, in my view, we are far better placed to deal with Iran if the Israel/Palestine issue is moving forward. When you say we would have been there anyway, I mean, we were wanting to go down the UN route, and I think, if we hadn't gone down the UN route, it would have been very difficult indeed. However, in respect of the Israel/Palestine issue, you know, it is there and in the record, as to how important I thought it was. To be fair to him, he would say that getting the Israelis to agree to the road map - admittedly, this didn't happen until, I think, April 2003 - was a major step forward, and it was a major step forward. It is still the governing document for the peace process today, and I can assure you it was a big push to get that agreed, me with him, and him with the Israelis. But there was also - as I say, the Intifada was going on, the Intifada being the uprising on the Palestinian side. So Israel was - you know, it was a difficult situation. Israel was losing a lot of people in terrorist attacks, there were retaliations against the Palestinians. There was a very bloody situation. It is a difficult question. I don't know that it fundamentally would have altered things. That was why I was arguing for it at the time. But, having said that, I think that, had we - once the conflict occurred and gone into Iraq, had we been able at that point to drive forward, I think that issue would have been taken care of and just to say really, because I may not get another chance to say it, about the reactions of Arab leaders in the region: most of them were glad to see the back of Saddam. Now, what they worried about was the consequences of doing so, but there was no great support. In fact, when, as he is now, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, when he was then the Crown Prince, had launched the Arab peace initiative in 2002, I think Saddam was the one leader to come out and denounce him. He paid monies to the families of the Palestinian suicide bombers. I mean, he was a menace on the Middle East peace process too. But, having said all of that, yes, of course, it would have been better if we had the Middle East peace process moving forward. The only thing I say in defence of President Bush was that it was a very difficult moment in that process. If you were trying to do it today, it would have been a lot easer than 2002, right in the middle of the Intifada. I was always disappointed and frustrated on this. Yes, it was obviously a possibility that military action would be the outcome of what was going to happen, and so there was a general discussion of the possibility of going down the military route, but, obviously, we were arguing very much for that to be if the UN route failed. Baroness, the first thing to do is to work out whether you believe that you are right to be in this at all. Then the next question is: if you are right to be in it, what is your level of support? On any occasion - and I ended up on several occasions taking military action - Kosovo, Sierra Leone, Afghanistan and Iraq - the first thing I do, in a sense, is to say to the military themselves - BARONESS USHA PRASHAR: Can we be specific about Iraq, because I'm asking: how did you weigh up the risks to the troops involved in the situation in Iraq? As I was just explaining, when I come to take this decision, the very first thing I do is I ask the military for their view, and their view in this instance was that they were up for doing it and that they preferred to be right at the centre of things. That, actually - I'm not hiding behind them, because that was my view too. I thought, if it was right for us to be in it, we should be in it there alongside our principal ally, the United States, I thought that in Afghanistan and I thought that in Iraq also. Correct. No. He very much left this to us, to decide what we wanted to do, but I had taken a view that this was something that, if it was right to do, actually it mattered to have Britain there and it mattered not simply for reasons to do with - It didn't have to be. You could have chosen one of the other two options. There were three basic options. Because, if you believe it is right and you are going to do it, my view was that it is best for Britain to be in there, right alongside, and I say that because I regarded this whole issue as a threat to our security, as well as a threat to the security of the United States of America. It is not simply that I valued the alliance, although I do value the alliance. As I always say to people: you can distance yourself from America, if you want to, but you will find it is a long way back. I believe it is a vital part of our security, and I also believe this: if we think it is right, we should be prepared to play our part fully. It wasn't so much that. It is a matter of common sense, obviously. If you are there with a bigger force alongside the Americans than otherwise, then, of course, you will be more intimately involved, but that's not really the reason. The reason was to say: here we have this situation, in which we believe there is a threat, America believes there is a threat, we are going to act jointly. We have acted jointly before, we are going to act jointly again, and it does in part derive from the importance that certainly I attach, and I hope the country does, to the American alliance, and also to the fact that our armed forces - and the thing that is extraordinary about them and magnificent about them, they are prepared to do the difficult things. Correct. You didn't, and shouldn't, do it for influence. Although, as I say, it stands to reason, if you are making a bigger contribution, you are going to have more of a say. Yes, the principal intelligence - I think this has been disclosed in the Butler Inquiry - in March 2002, was that our knowledge was "sporadic" and "patchy", I think were the words, but it went on to say, "but it is clear that Saddam continues his programme". Sir Martin, can I just say one thing, though, in respect again of this? Because it somewhat troubles me this, this absolutely - as I say, almost binary distinction between regime change and WMD. It was always relevant to me, because I think that it gives - it gives a different sense of the threat of the nature of Saddam's regime. The fact that there were, on some accounts, a million casualties in the Iran/Iraq war, 100,000 Kurds that had been killed, 100,000 killed by political killing, we had had the Kuwait situation where, again, tens of thousands died. The actual use of chemical weapons against his own people. So I think it is always important to remember from my perspective the nature of the regime did make a difference to the nature of the WMD threat. You mean - I think I actually said - it may be in the Chicago speech, or it may be elsewhere - that there are many regimes that I would like to see the back of, but you can't just go through, I am afraid, and remove all the dictatorships. People often used to say me about Mugabe in Zimbabwe and the Burma regime and so on, but you have to have a basis that is about a security threat. So, yes, you are absolutely right, that - my assessment of the security threat was intimately connected with the nature of the regime. I don't know whether the members of the Committee understand this, but when you actually read the descriptions of what happened when Saddam Hussein used chemical weapons in the Halabja village, and by some accounts as many as 5,000 people died through chemical weapons, there are people in Iraq today still suffering the consequence of that, to me that indicated a mindset that was horrific. It is horrific whether or not he then uses weapons of mass destruction, but if there is any possibility of him ever acquiring them or using them, it is a mindset that indicates this is a profoundly wicked - I would say almost psychopathic man. We were obviously worried that, after him, his two sons seemed to be as bad, if not worse. So yes, it is absolutely true, this definitely impacted on our thinking. No, I would say very much that we did give weight to that, and that's why, by the time you get to September 2002, you have got a lot more information. But it is one of the things that is most difficult sometimes, because people look at this in the light of what we know now. Saddam and weapons of mass destruction was not a counter-intuitive notion. You know, he had used them, he definitely had them. He was in breach of, I think, ten United Nations Resolutions on them, and so, in a sense, it would have required quite strong evidence the other way to have been doubting the fact that he had this programme. The link was, in my mind, at that time, this: that there was a proliferation threat that was potentially growing, because we had Iran, we had North Korea, we had Libya, we had Iraq, obviously. I would put a lot of emphasis on the AQ Khan activities. My fear was - and I would say I hold this fear stronger today than I did back then as a result of what Iran particularly today is doing. My fear is that states that are highly repressive or failed, the danger of a WMD link is that they become porous, they construct all sorts of different alliances with people and, yes, it is true we did not have evidence that Saddam was, for example, behind the September 11 attacks, and part of the difference between ourselves and the Americans was we were always saying we don't accept that. It is interesting - and this is referred to in the Butler Report, however, that actually Zarqawi did go into Iraq, in fact, prior to the invasion. Now, when I look - because I spent a lot of time obviously out in the region today. When I look at the way that Iran today links up with terror groups - and this is a different topic for a different day, but I would say that a large part of the destabilisation in the Middle East at the present time comes from Iran. The link between Iran, having nuclear weapons capability, and those types of terrorist organisations, it is the combination of that that makes them particularly dangerous. So you are absolutely right, Sir Martin. We were in a position back then where we were actually saying to the Americans, "Look, Saddam and Al-Qaeda are two separate things", but I always worried that at some point these things would come together. Not Saddam and Al-Qaeda simply, but the notion of states proliferating WMD and terrorist groups. I still think that is a major risk today. There was obviously Saddam and the funding of Palestine - the families of Palestinian suicide bombers, and so on. I think what's very interesting - and we will come on to this later, but when you actually look at what happened in Iraq and what happens, indeed, in Afghanistan today, what happens in Yemen today, Somalia, many different countries round the region, there are very strong links between terrorist organisations and states that will support or sponsor them. The reason why I think this is a particular danger today is because there are these states, Iran in particular, that are linked to this extreme and, in my view, misguided view about Islam. So we still face this threat today, in my view, very powerfully. Yes, because for the reasons that I have given, I think that these, as it happened before, if Saddam, freed from sanctions, was able to pursue WMD programmes, I was very sure that at some point we were going to be involved in the consequences of that. Absolutely because they were the ones in breach of UN Resolutions. If you wanted - I think I said this at the time. If you wanted to start somewhere on WMD, you started with the person who had used them and you started with the person who was in breach of UN Resolutions. Now, we decided to take a very, very strong view on this back then, and, as a result of that, countries actually, I think, did adapt their behaviour, at least for a time. Iran certainly did change its behaviour to begin with in relevant of its nuclear weapons programme, Libya, as you know, at the end of 2003, gave up its WMD programme. I had been working on this from President Clinton's time, but I think it is fair to say - They had been rumbled on the AQ Khan network, but it was interesting, when they finally gave it up, and it was at the end of 2003, we then discovered that they actually had a more extensive programme than we had thought, and I think AQ Khan at some point within the next couple of years was then put under house arrest. North Korea went back into six party talks. One of the things that is most difficult in this whole area, is people sometimes say to me today, "It is not Iraq, it is Afghanistan", or someone else says, "It is Pakistan", or someone else says "It is Iran". Today, now - yesterday, we had a conference on Yemen. I am afraid my view is they are all part of one picture. We had to deal with all of them, but you are absolutely right, the reason why we focused on Iraq was of the history of UN Resolutions being breached and also - and I think this is a pretty important point - he had used them. Probably not merely his own people, but thousands of people in the Iran/Iraq war. That's absolutely correct, Sir Lawrence, and that's why it was important obviously - we came under pressure in the lead-up to the publication of the dossier in September 2002. We came under enormous pressure to say what is our intelligence actually telling us. That's why, between March 2002 and the actual publication on 24 September 2002, we had further intelligence reports, and obviously the Joint Intelligence Committee was incredibly active during that period in assessing what the threat was and the evidence was. dossier, and I don't want to go into all of that now, but two issues do stand out: the particular question of the 45-minute claim; and the more general assertion that the intelligence was beyond doubt. The 45-minute claim is very specific and very controversial. Is it fair to say that the intelligence referred to chemical, possibly biological, munitions for short-range battlefield use, but that specificity was lost in the document? It is absolutely right that that was what it was to do with. In respect of the 45 minutes, as you know - and it is just worth pointing out. This was a headline I think in the Evening Standard newspaper the next day. I have said on many occasions, not least to the Butler Inquiry, it would have been better to have corrected it in the light of the significance it later took on, but can I just point one thing out, Sir Lawrence: she did an analysis between the publication of the dossier on 24 September 2002 and the BBC broadcast at the end of May 2003, which alleged that we, Downing Street, had inserted this into the dossier, probably knowing it was wrong. Then, of course, obviously that then kicked off a huge controversy that goes on to this day. Between September 2002 and the end of May 2003 there were 40,000 written Parliamentary questions on Iraq; it was mentioned twice. There were 5,000 oral questions; it was not mentioned at all. In the 18 March nobody mentions it. All I'm saying is - - ex post facto this has taken on a far greater significance than it ever did at the time. I didn't focus on it a great deal at the time, because it was mentioned by me, and then, as I say, it was never actually mentioned again by me. As I indicated to the Butler Inquiry, in the light of what subsequently happened and the importance it subsequently took on, it would have most certainly been better to have corrected it. However, if I could just make this point about the - you know, where you quite rightly say, of course it is not surprising it takes on significance because of all the controversy, quite rightly, over the intelligence that was wrong. It was for that very reason that we held the Hutton Inquiry, which was a six-month Inquiry, precisely into whether we had inserted this from Downing Street into the dossier, and of course we didn't, and the JIC was the - Correct, and as I say, I mentioned it, I think, in my statement of 24 September, but I mentioned it without any great emphasis and I mentioned it, I think, in reasonably sensible terms. You know, the thing that strikes me most now, when you go back and look at the dossier and how it was received, it was actually received as somewhat dull and cautious at the time. It really assumed a vastly greater importance at a later time, precisely because of the allegation, which was an extraordinarily serious one, that we, Downing Street, had deliberately falsified the intelligence, which of course we hadn't. I don't think it was us that were successful in establishing that point of view. I think you would have been hard pushed to have found virtually anybody who doubted he had WMD and a WMD capability and programme, because we had been through this whole saga, ten years of military action. As I say, I took the first military action in respect of Baghdad with President Clinton in 1998. So it wasn't that so much, and, incidentally, I just point out that in the statement with the dossier, which I think, to be frank, it was the statement people would have heard rather than the foreword, I actually say specifically: "'Why now?' people ask. I agree, I cannot say that this month or next, even this year or next, Saddam will use his weapons." So the issue was not he is about to launch an attack - No, I was merely reflecting on the fact that there was a whole issue to do with Russia and its view of how to proceed. I think what I said in the foreword was that I believed it was beyond doubt. What: "What I believe the assessed intelligence has established beyond doubt is that Saddam has continued to produce chemical and biological weapons." I did believe it. I think that was the - and I did believe it, frankly, beyond doubt. If you - if I had taken, for example, the words out of - even the 9 March 2002 or the March 2002 JIC assessment, it said, "It was clear that ..." Now, if I said, "It was clear that" in the foreword, rather than "I believe, beyond doubt", it would have had the same impact. I actually think now - and this is, incidentally, I think, a lesson that came out of the Butler Inquiry but I think it is relevant to this as well, and I said this at the time, now, I would take government right out of this altogether. I would simply have published, if the intelligence services had been willing, the JIC assessment, because they were absolutely strong enough on their own, and if you look at the dossier itself - and, of course, the dossier itself, if you just take the executive summary - I mean, I won't go through and read it, but this executive summary wasn't drawn up by me. It was drawn up by the Joint Intelligence Committee and they did it perfectly justifiably on the information they had before them. It is hard to come to any other conclusion than that this person has a continuing WMD programme, and I mean, we will come at a later point in this to the issue of what the truth was about Saddam, because the Iraq Survey Group, which is, in my view, an extremely important document, has actually resolved the conundrum and the riddle of what Saddam was up to, and we therefore can see what happened. But if you go back to that time, if you read the executive summary and the information that follows, I can't see how anyone could come to a different conclusion. When you are Prime Minister and the JIC is giving this information, you have got to rely on the people doing it, with experience and with commitment and integrity, as they do. Of course, now, with the benefit of hindsight, we look back on the situation differently. But let me say what was troubling me at the time was - supposing we put it the other way round and it was correct and I wasn't going to act on it, that was the thing that worried me, and when I talked earlier about the calculus of risk changing after September 11th, it is really, really important, I think, to understand this, so far as understanding the decision I took, and, frankly, would take again: if there was any possibility that he could develop weapons of mass destruction, we should stop him. That was my view. That was my view then and it's my view now. The most difficult thing, when you are faced with a situation like this, is that it all depends what happens afterwards as to how people regard your behaviour at the time, and I have also been in situations where, for example, when we had the July 2005 bombings, where people were saying, "Well, look at this little snatch of intelligence here", or the Americans indeed, for September 11, they had entire Congressional hearings into, "Look at this bit of intelligence here". So your worry is not simply: is the intelligence correct, so that I can act? Your worry is also: if it is correct, what am I going to do about it? So I don't disagree with you at all. I think these things obviously now look quite different and, as I say, the Iraq Survey Group has resolved some of these riddles, frankly, as to what Saddam was up to. But I think it was at least reasonable for me at the time, given this evidence and given what the Joint Intelligence Committee were telling me, to say, "This is a threat that we should take very seriously." I certainly got a sense that they were. I think John Scarlett, in his evidence to you, explained about he was firming up the assessments he made. But when we actually came to the November UN Resolution, in fact nobody disputed the issue of Saddam's WMD. People disputed what we should do about it, we can come on to all of that. But it really wasn't something that people disputed at the time, and, you know, it is just interesting, I was looking back over the debates that we had on the publication of the dossier and just recognising that - of course, everyone now has a different perception of this, but at the time there were people saying to me, "I don't want military action under any set of circumstances". There were also people saying, "You are wasting time. You are not acting fast enough". For example, in the statement on the dossier of 24 September 2002, William Hague says: "Does the Prime Minister recollect that in a half century of various states acquiring nuclear capabilities, in almost every case their ability to do so has been greatly underestimated and understated by intelligence sources. Estimates today of Iraq taking several years to acquire a nuclear device should be seen in that context within that margin of error, and, given that -" Absolutely. Of course we should have been very sure of our case. All I'm saying is that all the intelligence we received in, even after the September dossier, was to the same effect, that it wasn't against that. The reason I simply was - I won't - I'll spare the stenographer and not go back over reading out the quotes. What I'm saying to you, however, is that there were people, perfectly justifiably and sensibly, also saying - and this gives you some idea of the context of the time, "Look, you can't sit around and wait for this. You know, you have got to take action and to take action clearly and definitively", and so one of the most difficult aspects of all of this in Iraq is that people often say to political leaders, quite understandably, "Listen to the people", and what you find in circumstances of great controversy is that actually there are different views, and in the end you have to decide, and I decided that this intelligence justified our considering Saddam as a significant and continuing WMD threat and that we had to act on it. Yes, it was telling me that in two respects, because I know you have asked other witnesses about this and I just want to make this clear as to why I believed it was growing. First of all, there were the September JIC assessments that talked of continuing production of chemical weapons. In other words, this was a continuing process. But secondly - and this did have an impact on me at the time, although this particular piece of intelligence turned out later to be wrong, but at the time, obviously, we didn't know that - on 12 September, in other words, after the 9 September JIC assessment but before we did the dossier, I was told and specifically briefed about these mobile production facilities for biological weapons. So this was an additional and new factor and this was very much linked to whether and how Saddam might conceal his activities. In terms of the nuclear programme, what was set out in the dossier, and set out in very detailed form, incidentally, were all the different items that he had been trying to procure, which could indicate a continuing interest in nuclear weapons. Here is the problem, Sir Roderic, and we face again exactly the same problem in Iran today. If you say to people, "How long will it take them to get -" There are debates about that, actually, but if you ask people about the nuclear weapons capability, for example, in respect of Iraq, some people would say, "Yes, if they are doing it on their own, it is going to take significant amount of time, but you can foreshorten that time if you buy in the material". So one of the reasons - and I emphasise again this whole proliferation issue and AQ Khan in particular - was that it always worried me that any of these countries, if they were so minded, could step up very quickly and get - There is a judgment you have to make, and you are right in saying, "If this and if that", but you see, for me, because of the change after September 11, I wasn't prepared to run that risk. I really wasn't prepared to take the risk - That's up to them, but my view, the view of the US, I think the view of many other countries - after all, when the Iraq action took place, half of the members of the European Union were also with America, Japan was with America, South Korea was with America, but I think there is an interesting point, I think you are absolutely right to raise the judgment. In the end, this is what it is. As I sometimes say to people, this isn't about a lie or a conspiracy or a deceit or a deception, it is a decision, and the decision I had to take was, given Saddam's history, given his use of chemical weapons, given the over 1 million people whose deaths he had causes, given ten years of breaking UN Resolutions, could we take the risk of this man reconstituting his weapons programmes, or is that a risk it would be irresponsible to take? I formed the judgment, and it is a judgment in the end. It is a decision. I had to take the decision, and I believed, and in the end so did the Cabinet, so did Parliament incidentally, that we were right not to run that risk, but you are completely right, in the end, what this is all about are the risks. The reason why it is so important, the point you have made, is because, today, we are going to be faced with exactly the same types of decisions and we are going to have to make that judgment on risk, and my judgment - it may be other people don't take this view, and that's for the leaders of today to decide - my judgment is you don't take any risks with this issue. I think practically everything that was relevant to this was in the JIC statement, you know, the actual body of the dossier. So I can't think of specific items, but there were various things. Yes, and in particular the information that came in shortly before the dossier was published. It is a perfectly fair point, I think, Sir Martin. Let me just explain our problem, though. We had not decided we would take military action at that point. On the other hand, you couldn't say it wasn't a possibility. You know, in the part you have just read out, you will notice I choose the words quite carefully. I say, "No, no decisions have been taken", and the trouble was people kept writing, "They have decided. They are off on a military campaign and nothing is going to stop them". So we were in this difficulty that, had I said - and maybe, in retrospect, it is better just to say it - but, had I said, "Yes, we are doing military planning", our fear was people would push you into a position where you appeared to be on a kind of irreversible path to military action, and that wasn't our position. Our position was we wanted to get America down the UN route and get a resolution through the United Nations. Now, because it was so obvious with the history of this that you couldn't be sure that the United Nations route was going to work - in fact, the likelihood is that it wouldn't - nonetheless we had to do military planning for it. Parliament can be quite a tricky forum in which to engage in a nuanced exercise, is my experience after ten years of Prime Minister's Questions, but it is a perfectly fair point, and actually, towards the end of October, I think Geoff Hoon said to me, "You have got to come and take certain decisions". I do want to emphasise this, because it is very important: if at any point the military had said, "Look, you are really going to inhibit our ability to do this if we can't have visible planning", then obviously - and that's what happened in October - we would have had to have changed that, but my worry was you are going to be in a situation where people assume that which has not, in fact, been decided. So we had to, for prudent and sensible reasons, carry on doing this military planning. We were doing it kind of as much as we could under the radar, as it were, but I can't frankly say it made much difference in the end, so it is a perfectly fair point you are making. Yes. The second resolution was obviously going to make life a lot easier politically in every respect. The difficulty was this: that 1441 had been very clear - and I know you have gone through this in enormous detail with Peter Goldsmith, but just to emphasise the point, it was a very strong resolution. It declared Iraq was in material breach, it said that it had fully and unconditionally and immediately to cooperate and cooperate with the inspectors and so on. It was a strong resolution. It specifically mentioned the previous resolutions, 678, 687 and so on. But, as you have heard, the truth is there was an unresolved issue, because some people - some countries obviously wanted to come back and only have a decision for action with a specific UN Resolution specifically mandating that action. We took the view that that was not necessary, but, obviously, politically, it would have been far easier. Correct. So there was that issue as well and that was another reason why getting a second resolution would have been important, although Peter was not, I don't think, saying that that resolution had to be in those terms, but that we needed to come back for a further decision, as it were. Yes, absolutely. President Bush's view and the view of the entire American system was that, by that time, Saddam had been given an opportunity to comply. I think the Resolution 1441 said it was a final opportunity - - to comply, and he hadn't taken it. Indeed, what we now know is that he was continuing to act in breach of the UN Resolutions even after the inspectors had gone back in there. So the American view was - the American view throughout had been, you know, "This leopard isn't going to change his spots. He is always going to be difficult". So that was their concern about the UN route, in a sense, that they'd get pulled into a UN process, you'd never get to a proper decision and then you'd never get the closure of the issue in the way that you should. The problem, obviously, from our perspective, was that we had gone down the UN route, we wanted to carry on going down the UN route, but the Americans had taken the view - and in a sense we took the same view of the Iraqi behaviour up to that period at the end of January - that they weren't complying. His view was that it wasn't necessary but he was prepared to work for one. The President's view was that if you can't get a second resolution because, in essence, France and Russia are going to say no, even though in fact I don't think they were really disputing that Iraq was in breach of Resolution 1441, then we were going to be faced with a choice I never wanted to be faced with: did you go then without a second resolution? My view very strongly was that, if he was in breach of 1441, we should mean what we have said. It was a final opportunity to comply, he wasn't complying - There was then the legal question, which was very important, because Peter had drawn my attention to that. So there were all sorts of factors that were going to be in play there. There was the political question as to whether we would get the support for it. But my own view, and I was under absolutely no doubt about this, was that, if you backed away, when he was playing around with the inspectors in precisely the way he had done before, then you were going to send a very, very bad signal out to the world. Correct. My view was that, if, in the end, you could not get a second resolution, even in circumstances where there was plainly a breach of Resolution 1441, and there was, and at some point we can go through the Blix reports - You can see Blix himself was clear in each one of his reports there was not full and unconditional compliance. Hm-mm. It was at that meeting or around about that time, certainly, yes. Well, this was a debate that continued, frankly, and you see, what I tried to do, as you know, before the military action, is I had one last attempt to get a consensus in the Security Council around a resolution I drafted, effectively with Hans Blix, to lay down a series of tests that Saddam had to comply with. You see, the problem was this: there was no doubt he was in breach because he wasn't complying fully and unconditionally and immediately. On the other hand, people were saying, "Well, but give the inspectors more time", which is perfectly - you know, understandable. I was thinking, "How do we actually get to the point where you force people to understand and, in a sense, Saddam finally to decide, whether he is going to comply or not?" It wasn't that I was giving myself an ultimatum, because our position had been clear. We had to resolve this through the UN. If we couldn't resolve it through the UN inspectors, we had to resolve it by removing Saddam. What actually happened was we had time enough to do it. The problem was very simple: in the end, after 1441, in a sense France and Germany and Russia moved to a different position and they formed their own power, in a sense, essentially saying to America "We are not going to be with you on this". Yes, that is correct, and in this sense: I think it is fair to say that the only reason why Saddam was having anything much to do with the inspectors at all - and they were getting dribs and drabs of more cooperation - was because we had 250,000 troops down there, with all their machinery, sitting on his doorstep. So you are always in a position where you have got to be very careful then, and I think the - many of the witnesses have said this to your Inquiry. Not just the Americans, I think our own military were concerned, if you then had months with the troops down there, you know, as inspections went on but nothing really was being resolved, I think that would have been difficult to have done. So in that sense you are right. Of course, it is always - you have got to - you come to a point of decision. The only thing I would say to you is, and I think this is absolutely vital in understanding again the mindset at the time, had Saddam, after 1441, in a sense done a Colonel Gaddafi, if he had come forward and said "Right. I accept it. We are going to full and unconditional compliance. Here is the declaration. It covers everything we have. Come in, interview our scientists, take them out of the country and interview them, if you wish. We are going to completely reposition ourselves", had he done that, we would have been in a different situation. He didn't. I totally understand the point you are making. Let me explain to you why, Sir Lawrence, I don't believe it is correct. If you look at Iraq Survey Group report now, this report - we will get to the detail of it a bit later, but this report is very, very important indeed, because what it is effectively is what Hans Blix could have produced, had Saddam cooperated with him. What that report shows is actually the extent to which Saddam retained his nuclear, and, indeed, chemical warfare intent and intellectual know-how. Now, what Saddam could have done perfectly easily is to have provided the proper documentation and he could have cooperated fully in the interviews of the scientists. But it is a very important point, if you don't mind me saying so. Because, actually, if you look, both at the Blix reports - and we can come to the detail of that - and the Iraq Survey Group, he was deliberately concealing documentation, and what is more, he was deliberately not allowing people to be interviewed properly. Indeed, in December 2002 - this is after Resolution 1441 - we received information, and this information remains valid, that Saddam called together his key people and said that anybody who agreed to an interview outside of Iraq was to be treated as a spy. Now, the reason for that is very simple, and it emerges from the Iraq Survey Group report. He retained full intent to restart his programme, and, therefore, it was very important for him that the interviews did not take place, because the interviews with senior regime members were precisely what would have indicated the concealment and the intent. But this is, as I say - and I think, Sir Lawrence, you are absolutely right. This is absolutely at the crux of it. Well, sorry. Just - it is really very important to get this right. It is absolutely clear from the Iraq Survey Group, and indeed the Butler Report deals with this, that he was concealing material he should have delivered up to the UN, that he retained the intent, not merely in theory, but was taking action on, for example, dual-use facilities that were specifically in breach of the United Nations Resolutions. Dr Blix and his reports are obviously the key documents here, and you will see from his reports - he goes through them, I think, on 19 December, then he has got one on 9 January, I think again on 27 January, then - Correct. Well, the whole point was that his view was that Iraq was complying somewhat, but not fully and unconditionally, and, as time went on, I became increasingly alarmed, actually, that we were just back into a game-playing situation with Saddam. I think we were, incidentally. I think it is very clear from what we know now that he never had any intention of his people cooperating fully with the inspectors. No, that's true, and obviously, as the prospect of military action and the troop build-up was there, he started to give more cooperation. But I would just draw your attention to something that I think, as I say, is of fundamental importance and that is that Resolution 1441 - it decided in paragraph 5, operational paragraph 5, not just that he had to give unrestricted access to all sites and so on, but it specifically focused on the issue to do with interviews and gave - Exactly, Sir Lawrence, but let me tell you - this is a really important point here. He wasn't enthusiastic. I used to have these conversations with Hans Blix, where Hans would say to me, "I agree we should interview these people, but you don't understand, they may be killed, or their relatives may be killed", and I would say to him, "Well, what does that tell us about the nature of the person we are dealing with and the nature of his compliance?" Yes, he was - he kept saying to me, "I feel deeply personally responsible if I ask for these interviews to be conducted outside of Iraq because I believe these people may be killed", but that, to me, was not - Correct. It wasn't that I was disappointed. I was getting confused as to what he was really trying to tell us. Because what he kept doing is saying, "Yes, there is a bit of cooperation here, but then there is not cooperation there", and what particularly struck me about the 14 February Blix report, and this then had a huge significance in what I then tried then to construct as a final way of avoiding the war, is, on page 26 of his briefing, he deals with this issue of interviews and he says that the Iraqi side of - because they are starting to move on interviews because he is beginning to press on it - they have made a commitment that they will allow it, but then, when he actually comes to the interviews themselves, people are very reluctant to do it. Yes, but it is precisely the reason, therefore, why, even if Dr Blix had continued, the fact is he would never have got the truth out of Saddam and the leading people in the regime. The people who did get the truth out of them were the Iraq Survey Group, and what they found was that Saddam retained the intent - I know, but it is incredibly important. And the know-how. It is just sometimes - I will do this very briefly, but sometimes what is important is not to ask the March 2003 question, but to ask the 2010 question. Supposing we had backed off this military action, supposing we had left Saddam and his sons, who were going to follow him, in charge of Iraq, people who used chemical weapons, caused the death of over 1 million people, what we now know is that he retained absolutely the intent and the intellectual know-how to restart a nuclear and a chemical weapons programme when the inspectors were out and the sanctions changed, which they were going to be. I think it is at least arguable that he was a threat and that, had we taken that decision to leave him there with the intent, with an oil price, not of $25, but of $100 a barrel, he would have had the intent, he would have had the financial means and we would have lost our nerve. My response to that was to say, "What you have to tell us is as to whether he is complying with the resolution. Is he giving immediate compliance and full compliance or not?" His answer to that was, "No, but, you never know, it may be that, if we are given more time, he will". It was re-arising out of that conversation that I worked with him to try and get a fresh UN Security Council Resolution. I kept working on that right up until the last moment. Whether he thought the action was justified or not, his reports were clear that the compliance was not immediate and the cooperation unconditional. It plainly wasn't. Indeed, actually, on his 7 March document, where he was obviously moving further along the road, he says this at page 31: "It is obvious that while the numerous initiatives which are now taken by the Iraqi side with a view to resolving some longstanding, open disarmament issues can be seen as active or even proactive. These initiatives, three to four months into the new resolution, cannot be said to constitute immediate cooperation. Nor do they necessarily cover all areas of relevance. They are nonetheless welcome." So what I felt was that we had got to a situation where he was very much, "On the one hand ... and on the other", and here was the decision we had to take really at this point: and I think, in the light of what the Iraqi Survey Group have found, I actually think this judgment was right, which is why personally I don't believe, if Hans Blix had another six months, it would have come out any differently. We had to reform this judgment. If you have got a regime that you believe is a threat, in the end you may choose - you may change them through sanctions, but they have to be sustainable. You may change them by military force with all the problems there. The simplest way of change is that there is a change of heart on behalf of the regime. Now, we had to decide: did all this that he was doing with Dr Blix really indicate to us - I mean, he was definitely in material breach of the UN Resolution, but did it really indicate that this was someone who had had a change of heart? It was more, actually, Sir Lawrence, the other way round, that what we were trying to do was to say: how do you resolve what, on any basis, is a somewhat indistinct picture being painted by Dr Blix? Because it is clear they are not cooperating fully, that they are giving a little bit of cooperation, and I come back to the fact that, of course, the only cooperation that was being given was because of this huge military force sitting on Saddam's doorstep. What I tried to do was find a way - and that's why I did this with Dr Blix himself. We sat down and we had a conversation - I think actually we had a long conversation on the phone. I remember Jack Straw was very much involved in this. Jeremy Greenstock, I think, at the UN, was very much involved in this. We tried to construct these tests, and the most important one, to me, was this ability to get the scientists out of the country. The reason for constructing the resolution was to try and get us into the situation of having more time. The problem, however, was this: we could have got the resolution together. I was having discussions late into the night every evening with - I think it was the Chileans and the Mexicans and I was speaking to the French. We were speaking to everybody. We were trying desperately to get this last route out, and there were other things that were being talked about at the time. I had - I won't go into the details of it, but there was a group of Arab countries that came to us and they were quite keen, I think, on actually, if we got a fresh resolution, pushing Saddam out. So there were ways, even then, when we could have tried to resolve this. The problem was it became very clear that, whatever their position had been in November 2002, the position, particularly of France and Russia, really changed. They had decided they weren't going to agree any new resolution that had in it any authority for action if Saddam didn't comply. The reason why that then made our position very difficult was, if you tabled another resolution, but said, "Even if he doesn't comply with that resolution, we will come back and have yet other discussion -" That's why we tried to construct this arrangement, in order to get us some more time. I think I would make two points, however. First of all, I think we would have got the nine votes, were it not for the fact that those members in the middle group - I mean, they were called the "undecided six" at a certain point - they were getting such a clear and vehement message from France and Russia that they weren't going to accept any resolution that was an authority for action, that that's really what disintegrated that possibility. The second thing is, though, even if we had got more time, Hans Blix would never have been able to conduct the interviews with the key members of the regime and they be honest with him. I'm not really sure about that, Sir Lawrence. By then, we had been four months with Saddam and, you know, you can take different views and - of the Blix reports, and Hans Blix obviously takes a certain view now. I have to say in my conversations with him then it was a little different. But you have to make a judgment: is this person really seriously cooperating with the international community or not? As we now know, incidentally, he wasn't. I do emphasise also the fact that he - and there is also evidence in the Iraq Survey Group, which is actually quite important, about what Iraqi scientists were being told by the Vice-President of Iraq. He gathered them all together as the inspectors went in and, as you know, the inspectors were supposed to be given all the information, any materials they had. What he was saying was, "If you have any materials in your possession, you had better not have". Now - No. What he actually did, much to the consternation of his system, was he said, "Okay, if you can get this new resolution down with the tests that I can" - because I constructed them with Blix, so I thought "Here you are, you are constructing these tests with the UN inspector", so I thought that would give them a certain persuasive quality obviously with the other members of the Security Council. What President Bush actually said to me was, "If you can get that, do it", but, you know, you have got to understand from the American perspective, they had gone down the 1441 route, he obviously wasn't cooperating. We had been through the 8 December declaration. We then went through the January report, the February report, and they had their forces down there ready to take action. It was difficult situation, but actually he did, to be fair, say, "If you can put it together, put it together". I think there was a judgment being made - and I honestly, in retrospect, can't disagree with this judgment, that, you know, more time was not going to solve this. I believe I spoke to President Chirac myself. I think it was on 14 March. So this is actually, you know, after that time. The French position was very, very clear. It wasn't that they would veto any resolution, it is that they would veto a resolution that authorised force in the event of breach. The point was this: that, if we were going to come back to the United Nations and get another resolution, it had to be a resolution that said something stronger and tougher than 1441, and, therefore, the idea was to say, because we had been through 1441, Saddam was not in compliance, "Okay, if we come back for another resolution, then this has got to authorise action". My judgment, having spoken to Jacques Chirac - and we kept perfectly good lines open, actually, through this, and I was very anxious to make sure for the aftermath situation that we came back together again in the UN Security Council. So I wasn't, you know, trying to be in a position where France and Britain, as it were, fell out, but it was very, very clear to me the French, the Germans and the Russians had decided they weren't going to be in favour of this and there was a straightforward division, frankly, and I don't think it would have mattered how much time we had taken, they weren't going to agree that force should be used. Unless there had been something absolutely dramatic that the inspectors had uncovered. That might have made a difference to them, but the mere fact that he was in breach of 1441, despite this being his final opportunity, my judgment, I have to say - and I think this is pretty clear - is that there was by then a political divide on this, of a pretty fundamental nature. No, the actual situation - because I had many conversations with other leaders at the time, and most of those were with President Lagos of Chile, whom I knew well and had a very good personal relationship with. He was in a tough situation, as we were all at that time, and what President Lagos was effectively saying to me was, "Look, if you can get to a stage where you can loosen the French opposition, then it is a lot easier for us to come along with you". So it was very bound up with, as it were, what was then becoming in the Permanent 5 a disagreement; UK and America on one side, France and Russia on the other. I think it was more that - I thought there was - it was worth having one last-ditch chance to see if you could bring people back together on the same page. So in a sense, what President Bush had to do was agree to table a fresh resolution. What the French had to agree was you couldn't have another resolution and another breach and no action. So my idea was define the circumstances of breach - that was the tests that we applied with Hans Blix - get the Americans to agree to the resolution, get the French to agree that you couldn't just go back to the same words of 1441 again, you had to take it a stage further. Now, that was the idea I had. I thought it might be possible to bring everyone back together again. It wasn't possible to do that, and I was also very conscious by that time as well of the need to bring the UN back into the situation after a conflict, and so that was a factor in my mind as well. As I say, I wanted to try, as far possible, to make sure that you didn't end up with, as it were, really a political disagreement becoming a really ugly political situation between the major countries in the Security Council. I think the Americans would have done that. I think President Bush actually at one point shortly before the debate said, "Look, if it is too difficult for Britain, we understand". But I took the view very strongly then, and do, that it was right for us to be with America, since we believed in this too, and it is true that it was very divisive, but it was divisive in the sense that there were two groups. There was also a very strong group in the international community, in Parliament, I would say even in the Cabinet, who also thought it was the right thing to do. So, for example, in the European Union at the time I think 13 out of the 25 members were with America. Japan and South Korea were with America, major allies lining up with America. I would have hoped to have had a United Nations situation at which everywhere was on the same page and agreed. Sometimes that doesn't happen. . It was a really tough situation, yes, and in the end, as I say, what influenced me was that my judgment ultimately was that Saddam was going to remain a threat and that in this change in the perception of risk after September 11 it was important that we were prepared to act, our alliance with America was important, and, to put this very clearly, we had been down a UN path that I genuinely hoped would work. I hoped that 1441 would avoid conflict happening. I did hope it would work. I wasn't confident about Saddam, I think for perfectly good reasons. He was someone who had been defying the UN for ten years, and, as we know now, he hadn't really changed his intent. So I could see a situation in which you might be faced with this tough choice, but I was doing absolutely everything I could to try and avoid having to do it. Well, that was a possibility. As I think we discussed this morning - in fact, our own military, in a sense, to their great credit, were in favour, if we were going to be part of this, to be wholehearted. This was even back in October. I think, if you look at the record back in October 2002, the military were saying what their preferences were for the three options. I'm sorry, I thought you were meaning to suggest it was just because the troops were down there. I think, to be fair - and I think Mike Boyce would say this to you - that they wanted to be a wholehearted part of this, and I thought that was right as well, as I discussed. It would have been a very big thing for us to have kept out of the aftermath as well, and, of course, it was in the aftermath that some of the most difficult things happened, and the British forces performed absolutely magnificently, both during the invasion and afterwards. Which they did, of course. Sorry, I meant precisely the opposite, exactly what you are saying, Sir Roderic. In other words, we would have been as part of the aftermath and, actually, as it turned out - for reasons that we didn't foresee, as it turned out, it was the aftermath that was the most difficult and toughest part of this. What I'm saying is: to have kept out of the aftermath as well as the initial action, I think would have been very hard for Britain, but having said all of that, look, again, this is a judgment. You could have decided to do option 1 or 2. In the end, we decided to do option 3, and I think that was, I would say, the consensus view between political and military at the time. Just to say this to you, one of the things that I have done in every single piece of military action I advocated as Prime Minister is the first thing, in a sense, I do is get a sense from our armed forces as to whether they are committed and keen to do it, and, of course, they are, because that's the type of people they are and they are fantastic. But it was very much a conversation we had back in - I think beginning actually in July time, and then building up through October, and then, by the time we came to March, yes, it is true, we could have pulled back at that stage, but I believe that that would have been wrong and I think it would have not indicated the strength of support that I felt was right for us to exhibit. Yes. Yes, I think that's a fair summary. Yes, I think that is a fair summary of the legal background. I would say, however, just one point, Sir Roderic, which is that what was so important to me about Resolution 1441 was not simply that it declared Saddam in breach, gave him a final opportunity, but it said also, in op 4, that a failure to comply unconditionally and immediately and fully with the inspectors was itself a further material breach. This was extremely important for us to secure in that resolution, and we did secure it, and what we kept out of 1441 was an attempt to ensure that we had to go back for another decision. We got a paper, I think it was an 8 March paper, which set out the legal position, and that set it out in the terms that you have just summarised. I was obviously not just very interested in it for obvious reasons, but interested in it for this reason as well: that we had taken action in 1998 and we had taken action on the basis of the revival of Resolution 678. So it was very important to me because we had already taken military action, and, indeed, as you rightly point out, military action had been taken in 1993 as well, but we had that before us and one of the things that was most important in us going down the UN route was precisely the legal advice that we got. I don't, but I may be able to to - No, it came from the Foreign Office, actually. I mean, we were, in my view, a long way at that point from taking a decision. Had we come closer to the point of taking a decision, of course we would have needed to have taken the formal advice of the Attorney General, as indeed we did. At that stage, we had the advice of the Foreign Office, and, actually, the Foreign Office advice was pretty much in line with what Peter Goldsmith then later advised me. Not at that stage, because we were, as I say, at a very preliminary point. But what I took from the advice that we were given was that we needed a fresh resolution. I do point out that - because this was why, at a later stage, I became concerned as to what the legal problem was, because, of course, we got a further resolution. Well, and ministers. He was very closely involved in this, in the sense that he, himself, and on his own initiative, actually - and after that time, we obviously had a pretty close interaction on it - at the end of July 2002, wrote to me about his legal advice. It is correct - and I think this is in accordance with tradition - he didn't attend Cabinet until we got to the point when we were actually going to take the decision, but back then we were a year off military action in March 2002. Now, had we got close the point of military action, of course Peter would have been very closely involved and actually began to be involved some - I think it is right to say eight months before the military action began. The issue is not how many times he comes to the Cabinet, the issue is whether he is giving his advice to the Prime Minister and the ministers, and Peter was. Just to say this about Peter Goldsmith. As you will have seen from his evidence, Peter is absolutely a lawyer's lawyer. He is somebody of extraordinary integrity. He is somebody who actually, as a lawyer, is in the very top rank of the legal profession, and Peter made it quite clear from a very early stage of this that if he felt he had advice to give, he would give it, and in a sense he would give it whether people wanted it or they didn't want it, but he was going to give it and he did give it. It wasn't that it was not particularly welcome, it was - obviously, I was dealing with what was already a difficult situation, and now I became aware we had to take a whole new dimension into account. Of course, we had at an earlier stage of this, but once we got into discussions with the Americans, I was well aware of the fact from - really from March onwards, that if we wanted to be legally secure on this, we had to go down the UN route, and that was one major part of why we decided to do this. No, but having said that, it actually was then very helpful for him to do this, because he focused our minds, quite rightly, on the need to get the right resolution in 1441. I don't know, but I know Peter very well and he's someone I have a great respect for, and I'm sure - I think, to be frank, and to be fair to him, he was deciding, before I go to President Bush - and I think he worried about statements that had been made by various ministers. He wanted to make it absolutely clear that it wasn't merely - I think his point was: it is not merely going down the UN route, it is getting the right resolution that will be important. No. I think what was important for him to do was to explain to us what his concerns were and, look, all the way through this there was a - you know, as I know myself, lawyers take different views of issues and an issue such as this they were bound to take very different views. Peter was quite rightly saying to us, "These are my concerns. This is why I don't think 1441 in itself is enough". Now, we had begun military preparations even before we got the first resolution, the 1441 resolution. We had to do that, otherwise we would never have been in a position to take military action. But let me make it absolutely clear, if Peter in the end had said, "This cannot be justified lawfully", we would have been unable to take action. We did know our options. We didn't get formal, in a sense, legal advice at that point, but Peter had made it clear what his view was, and then there was a whole iteration because the whole of the legal interpretation really revolved around a bit like a statutory construction point for lawyers: what was in the minds of the people who passed the resolution? As you rightly said earlier, the resolution in one sense was unclear as to what people intended. On the other hand, I certainly felt where it was absolutely clear was that there had to be immediate, full and unconditional compliance, and any lack of that compliance was a further material breach. So in my view, there had to be at least a strong prima facie case if you could show material breach, that this justified the revival argument, since, otherwise, you know, you couldn't have justified it in respect of 1998 - Well, we did know, because Peter made it clear, the best thing to do is to get another resolution. So we were well aware that this was his advice. The issue was really this - Actually, it was two things, I think, to be fair to him. I think it is very important that this is seen in its proper context. It all revolved around the interpretation of 1441 and the question was: what did the Security Council mean? We were obviously arguing very strongly that the Security Council had agreed that he was in breach, given him a final opportunity, and any further breach was a material breach and he had to comply fully, and what is more - The issue as to whether - because some people wanted, actually, that the Security Council had to take a decision, that was excluded. We refused to allow that precisely because we did not want to be in a situation where we were forced as a matter of law to come back for another decision, and people had nonetheless agreed 1441. So that was why there was at least as powerful an argument on the side of one resolution only as there was against it. Yes, so there was a disagreement between where our legal position was at this stage and the American position. I think it was at our suggestion, actually, that Peter then went to talk to Jeremy Greenstock. Yes, but it is not just because of the Americans. What happened was he had a discussion with Jeremy Greenstock - But he said it had been a very useful discussion and that had obviously moved him somewhat. It is fair to say, because I think it is important to say this - - it was always a very, very difficult balance to judgment, but the important thing was, in the end, that Peter came to the view - and I think anybody who knows him knows that he would not express this view unless he thought it and believed it - he came to the view that, on balance, the breach by Saddam Hussein of Resolution 1441 was sufficient, provided it was a breach of the obligations set out in op 4. I can't recall any specific discussions that I had. I don't know whether others would have had with him before 13 March, but essentially what happened was this: he gave legal advice, he gave an opinion saying, "Look, there is this argument against it, there is this argument for it. I think a reasonable case can be made", and obviously we then had to have a definitive decision, and that decision is: yes, it is lawful to do this or not. So - Of course. A lot hung on that decision, and it was therefore extremely important that it was done by the Attorney General and done in a way which we were satisfied was correct and right, and that's what he did. If I can just point this out, too: if you go back and read Resolution 1441, I think it is quite hard to argue, as a matter of common sense - leave aside there are issues to do with the precise interpretation of some of the provisions. 1441, the whole spirit of it was: we have been through ten years of Saddam Hussein breaching UN Resolutions. We finally decide that he is going to be given one last chance. This is the moment when, if he takes that chance, there is no conflict, we resolve the matter, but if he doesn't take that chance and starts messing around again, as he started to do, then that's it. The further resolution was clearly politically preferable. For us, if you can get everybody back on the same page again, it is clearly preferable, but if you actually examine the circumstances of 1441, the whole point about it and - and this is the argument I used with the Americans successfully to get them to go down this route - and by the way, I should just point out, at the end of October 2002, I remember specifically a conversation with President Bush in which I said, "If he complies, that's it". There is no - But this is important, because people sometimes say it was all kind of cast in stone from - It was politically, we were saying - No. Politically, we were saying it was going to be very hard for us. Indeed, it was going to be very hard for us. What we said was, legally, it resolves that question obviously beyond any dispute. On the other hand, for the reasons that I have given, Peter, in the end, decided that actually a case could be made out for doing this without another resolution, and, as I say, did so, I think, for perfectly good reasons. Yes, and the reason why he had done that was really very obvious, which was that the Blix reports indicated quite clearly that Saddam had not taken that final opportunity. I seem to remember - but I may be wrong on this; if I am, forgive me - but I think that he had also sought the advice of Christopher Greenwood QC. Obviously, other countries, of course, were having the same issues as well and having to decide this and it wasn't - I don't think it is right to say it was irrelevant that the American lawyers had come to a different view. I think all countries who took the military action believed they had a sound legal basis for doing so. All I am pointing out is, actually, when you analyse 1441, it is less surprising as a conclusion to come to than as sometimes is made out today, because the fact is 1441 was very deliberately constructed. It had, if you like, a certain sort of integrity as a resolution to it. It basically said, "Okay, one last chance. One last chance, Saddam, to prove that you have had a change of heart, that you are going to cooperate", and he didn't. Sorry, forgive me, Sir Roderic. All I'm trying to say is, when you actually go back and read 1441, it is pretty obvious that you can make a decent case for this. I would put it in this way. What I needed to know from him was, in the end, was he going to say this was lawful? He had to come to conclusion in the end, and I was a lawyer myself, I wrote many, many opinions for clients, and they tend to be, "On the one hand ... on the other hand", but you come to a conclusion in the end and he had to come to that conclusion. Incidentally, I think he wasn't alone in international law in coming to that conclusion, for very obvious reasons, because, as I say, if you read the words in 1441 it is pretty clear this was Saddam's last chance. So that was what he had to do. He did it. As I say, anybody who knows Peter knows he would not have done it unless he believed in it and thought it was the correct thing to do, and that was - for us and for our armed forces, that was sufficient. I do not know that he said "not to win", he simply said, you know, there is a case either way, and there always was a case either way. That's why it would have been preferable, politically, and - and to have removed any doubt, to have had the second resolution, but in the end, we got to the point in the middle of March when, frankly, we had to decide. We were going either to back away or we were going to go forward, and I decided, for the reasons that I have given, that we should go forward. Yes, of course. Part of the purpose of asking for papers that describe the different levels of military commitment that you might give is precisely in order to be able to learn what it is that you will be required to do. But in these situations, you know, you are very, very dependent, rightly, on the advice that you are given from the Ministry of Defence and from the military. Absolutely. What was important was to be very clear that you could not do this unless the military were ready to do it, and, yes, it is true, as I think I have explained this morning, for a time we were worried about the visibility of all the planning. We were doing a certain amount of planning, but you then reach another level when you have to make it very visible and very clear. We didn't want to do that for fear of triggering an assumption that we were actually going to do military action irrespective of what was going to be happening at the United Nations. However, I think it was at the end of October 2002, Geoff Hoon said to me, "We have really got to get on with this now", and we did, and I know Mike Boyce said to you in his evidence that he was confident that the UK military was fully ready by the time we took the military action. No, the one thing about the military, in my experience, is they tell you very bluntly, quite rightly, what their situation is, what they want, what they don't want, and what they think about things, and Mike was very, very clear that they had the readiness. I think there were something like 250 different urgent operational requirements that went into this. All of them - I think Kevin Tebbitt told you this - were properly met, and, incidentally, had anyone at any stage come to me and said, "It is not safe to do this because of the lack of proper military preparation", I would have taken that very, very seriously indeed, but they didn't, and they got on with it, and they did it magnificently, as they always do. I thought that - sorry, Baroness. I thought that Geoff Hoon had come to me at the end of October - there had been a lot of work going on. But it was very important - just let me emphasise to you, on these issues to do with logistics, and there is an expertise that the army has on this, I needed to know from them that they could do it and they would be ready, and that's what they assured me, and they were. No, they were absolutely spelling out the implications, which is why Geoff Hoon came to me and said, "We have now got to get this visible and get a move on with it". We had a meeting with the Chief of Defence Staff and others, and - I just want to emphasise one thing: my attitude has always been - I don't think I refused a request for money or equipment at any point in time that I was Prime Minister. My view, very, very strongly, is, when you are asking your armed forces to go into these situations, you put everything to one side other than making sure that they have the equipment they need and they have the finance there to back it up. As far as I am aware, and, as I say, I think this was their evidence to you, they got it ready and they got it ready in time. I didn't know - I mean, as I say, there are, as it were, issues to do with logistics that they are far better able to tell you about. All I know is that they regard themselves as ready, and what is more, they performed as ready. They did an extraordinary job. Well, we changed and we did have the visible preparation. Exactly, but there was always a concern, if you like, in the middle part of 2002, because people were constantly saying, "They have made up their minds, nothing is going to alter it. We are now set on a military course". So we were anxious to make sure people did not think there was an inevitability about this, because one of the things I would emphasise to you is there really wasn't. If the UN route had worked successfully, however many doubts you could have on the past behaviour of Saddam, if it had worked successfully, the whole thing would have been - would not have happened. We would have taken the UN path and made it work. First of all, I think we have got to divide it into two sections here. Actually, we did an immense amount of pre-war planning. I think Mike Boyce said to you in his evidence that they spent as much time on Phase 4 as the other phases of the operation. We had the officials meeting obviously. We had the ad hoc meetings, we had Cabinet meetings, actually, that were discussing these issues. The real problem was that our focus was on the issues that, in the end, were not the issues that caused us the difficulty. It wasn't an absence of planning, it was that we planned for certain eventualities and, when we got in there, we managed to deal with those eventualities, but we discovered a different set of realities and then we had to deal with those. So the vast bulk of the pre-war planning was focused on the humanitarian, number one, I think probably more than anything else. Indeed, I think there was a House of Commons Select Committee report on 6 March 2003 saying you have got to do even more on the humanitarian side. All the focus was on that. Then there was - Yes, but I think, if you analysed those letters, they focused especially on the humanitarian side. They focused on - Exactly so, and that's why we were trying to make sure that we doubled our focus, and, when we went in there, I would simply say that on the humanitarian side - and that was the main thing people were warning about, we didn't end up with a humanitarian disaster. In fact, we avoided, and we avoided in many ways because of the work that DFID and the other agencies did. The other things she was warning about were the oil fields being set on fire and the use of chemical and biological weapons. So there was an immense amount of planning going on, but we planned with one assumption that turned out to be wrong, and then we also ended up with a fresh problem that I don't think people foresaw. Yes, for what we thought we were going to encounter in Iraq, I think we did plan adequately. We had a perfectly sensible plan, which was to make sure that - because from January onwards it was clear that we were going to have responsibility in the south, that we would be able, for example, to put together very quickly a group of Iraqis in Basra that would be able to take over greater responsibility, but one of the planning assumptions - and I was just looking this up now, and I think Andrew Turnbull gave you evidence to this effect. The planning assumption that the MoD, the Foreign Office, I think DFID, everybody, made, was that there would be a functioning Iraqi Civil Service. In other words, that you would remove the top level but you would have a functioning system underneath it, and I think one of the major lessons of this is to understand that, where you have these types of states that are, in the case of Iraq, a sort of semi-fascist state, if you like, which really operated by fear amongst - on the population from a small number of people, that assumption is going to be wrong. You are going to be dealing with the situation where you probably have to rebuild the civil infrastructure of the country from nothing, and that's what we found. You will have heard from the evidence of the generals and others, when they went into Basra, contrary to what we thought, and the MoD planning assumptions, we found a completely broken system. It is correct that I think from about early January onwards, we knew that we would be in a position where we were going to have to handle the situation in the south. That was actually, I think, preferable to us, frankly, from the situation originally contemplated, which is that you came in from the north. That was part of the commitment that we were able to make. We then knew they would be joined by the forces of other nations. I think from January onwards it was clear that we were going to be in a position, where we were going to be in charge of Basra, but the whole assumption - and you see this very clearly from the documents - is that you would come in, and for the first stage obviously the army would be the main people in charge. You would then bring your civilian people in behind that. You would then, as swiftly as possible, turn it over to the Iraqis themselves, and the idea was to get an Iraqi interim administration up and running very quickly. Yes, that was also a very important part of what we wanted to do. We wanted to bring the United Nations back in. Because we were the key partner of the US in this. We believed in it. We believed it was right to be there, for the reasons that I have given, and we were prepared to accept the responsibility of then putting the country right. Absolutely, and one of the things that we made very clear - I think I made this clear on a number of occasions, was that we could not walk away from our commitment to people in Iraq afterwards, but I believe, for all the reasons I have given, that this was an important commitment for us to make. The whole reason why we then had quite a detailed and difficult discussion actually with the Americans about the United Nations then coming back in for the aftermath was precisely because we knew for ourselves - and again I think Peter Goldsmith was advising this - that we needed that cover, that military cover, and 1483 effectively endorsed the coalition presence. I think, first of all, a lot of the criticisms have been directed at the American system. Now, all I would say about that is I think, like you, if you look at the Rand Report or the Inspector General's report, I think done in 2009, in America, I think it lays out very clearly the problems in pre-war planning and the problems in post-war execution. I think for ourselves, if we knew then what we know now, we would, of course, do things very differently. On the other hand, for what we thought we were going to have, we had planned for it and we actually met those eventualities. What we had agreed was that - this was the whole dispute, really, about the United Nations. We were saying the United Nations had to come back into the situation. Yes, that's absolutely right, Baroness, but in the end the Americans agreed that they should have what we called a vital or central role. I think if you actually look at what then happened with the United Nations in Iraq, I think Resolution 1483 is really a very important resolution. I don't know whether you want to look at it now, I'm perfectly content to do it, but - Rather than refer to it, let me just make this very simple point: I saw Kofi Annan, I think on - I think it was around 16 April. In other words, shortly after the military action had begun. I had a good and close relationship with Kofi Annan, someone I respect very much. He had been in a very difficult position throughout the last few months. He made it clear that the UN had to be independent of the coalition, but he also made it clear he wasn't arguing for the lead role. What he was arguing for - Absolutely. Correct, but that is why - when people say that, as it were, the UN should have been given the lead role, I'm simply pointing out the fact that he didn't want that. What he did want was a vital role, which is what we got the Americans to agree to, and if you look at Resolution 1483, it sets out the areas in which his special representative, which he agreed to appoint, was going to have influence and say, and actually, that special representative, Sergio Vieira de Mello, was absolutely excellent, would have made an enormous difference to Iraq and its future, but the terrorists killed him, assassinated him in August 2003. Well, the Americans were making efforts, actually, but I think, as I say, if you read the Inspector General's report, if you read the Rand Report, it is very clear things could have been done differently. I think the American administration, or the American system, as it were, has accepted that. No, I was personally involved in what was going to happen before then. As we came to the point of actually going in, it is true we had a meeting, I think in February 2003 and then subsequent meetings but the absolutely central point, since we are trying to see what are the lessons that we can learn, is that, unfortunately, what we thought was going to be the problem didn't turn out to be the problem. I would say we most certainly did plan for the problems in relation to the potential for a Sunni/Shia/Kurd split, and what we tried to do was to make sure that, as soon as possible, we brought the Sunnis and the Kurds and the Shia together. So what actually happened - and this happened in May, only just a few weeks after the invasion - they brought together - I think it was called the Iraq Governing Council or the Interim Governing Council. That had a membership of 25. I think there were 13 or - I think it was 13 Shia and 11 Sunni, and one - Well, I think - look, what actually happened was it became very clear that ORHA was not capable of doing that. I think we were being consulted on the questions everyone thought would arise, but it is true - I mean, Tim Cross and others were coming back and saying, "This system is not working in the way it should", and we were then interacting very strongly with the Americans. The only thing I say is: had we had even more focus on it, we would have still been focusing essentially on the humanitarian side with an assumption that we would inherit a functioning Civil Service infrastructure, and it was that assumption that proved to be wrong. I think that one the reasons why we set up - and I know you have had evidence about this - what is called the Stabilisation Unit, in 2004, was precisely because we recognised in the future - and I think this is what the American system now knows, for sure, if you are going to go into a situation like this, you have to go in as nation builders and you have got to go in with a configuration of the political and the civilian and the military that is right for a failed state situation. That doesn't mean to say that you don't do it, but you need to be prepared for it. We did plan for those eventualities. We did an analysis of what they might be, and we worked them out. The trouble was we didn't plan for two things: one was, as I say, the absence of this properly functioning Civil Service infrastructure; and, of course, the second thing, which is the single most important element of this whole business of what happened afterwards, people did not think that Al-Qaeda and Iran would play the role that they did, and we could have - if what you had ended up having was essentially an indigenous violence or insurgency, or the criminality and the looting and so on, again there are issues to do with the numbers of troops, the types of troops and - I just want to - I just wanted to finish by saying all of those are very important questions. We could have handled the situation if that had been the problem. It was the introduction of the external elements of AQ and Iran that really caused this mission very nearly to fail. Fortunately, in the end, it didn't, and the reason why that is important is that that itself, in my view, is a huge lesson, because those are the same forces that we are now facing, Afghanistan right round the region. I think that's a very good question. I think that actually we did, because the MoD did a massive amount of work - there is a whole planning assumptions paper, as you know, and we did focus on this, we really tried to drill down on it, and one of the reasons why, in early 2003, I was having quite difficult exchanges of correspondence with Clare Short particularly was because, rightly, she was getting worried that the humanitarian side was not going to be adequately advanced. I think in the future you are best to make this assumption, actually, that these types of failed states - I don't know whether you would describe Iraq as a failed state or a semi-fascist state, but whatever it was, it was a wholly dysfunctional system. If we are required to go into this type of situation again, you might as well assume the worst, actually, because it is going to be - you are dealing with states that are deeply repressive, very secretive, power is controlled by a very small number of people, and it is always going to be tough. Now, I think the real question in a way for us, as a country - because I think whatever preparations you make this was always going to be tough, always going to be tough - is: are we prepared to engage in this? Are we actually prepared to be in there for the long-term on nation building, in these difficult situations, fighting a completely different type of terrorist and insurgency threat? I was advised that we could sustain it, but it was going to be difficult, for sure. We obviously had the ongoing campaign in Afghanistan. We were bringing troops from other countries. I think we had about 30 countries in the coalition. They brought in roughly, I don't know, 15,000 to 20,000 additional troops as well. I think we had the troops we needed in the south, but, yes, it was - all the way through, it was going to be difficult. I was very concerned to make sure we didn't, and obviously a constant interaction between myself and the military was to make sure that we didn't. I think the idea obviously was that we would not require the same number of troops for the conflict as we would in the aftermath. There was, I think, a time in the middle of 2003, when we were asked for more troops and gave more troops. Our issue really in the south was less to do with the number of troops, because, in fact, there was relatively low level violence in the south compared with the rest of the country. Our concern was how we managed to get the reconstruction going in the south in circumstances where, fairly early on, there were groups whose purpose was deliberately to stop that reconstruction. These were very much decisions for the commanders on the ground, but I think they were conscious at a very early stage of this that they were trying both to make sure that they dealt with any lingering resistance, but, also, that they provided security for the local people. I have gone back over this many times, because I think it is very important actually, this period straight after the invasion, because, in a sense, what happened was that we very quickly toppled the Saddam regime, but then what we found, as I say, was that the situation was different from the one we expected. Between, I would say, March 2003 and early 2004, during the period of time that Sir Hilary Synnott was there, you know, we had the situation more or less under control. There was some reconstruction going. We had agreed, I think, a special claim on the reserve at the end of March 2003. What really happened was that another assumption that had been made, which was that Iran would basically not be provocative, it might have its interests, but it wasn't going to be provocative, that assumption also started to change, and what happened was that, as Moqtadr Sadr became more powerful, and obviously to an extent backed by Iran, that entered a new dimension into that, and then, as 2004 went on and came into 2005, this Iranian issue became much larger. Well, I think we were getting feedback as quickly as we could on how we could change the situation round. We were trying to get the United Nations obviously back in with a vital or central role. I went out then to Iraq at the end of May 2003. I met Jerry Bremer there, and, after that, I had meetings both internally, commissioning work, and then had a very frank discussion with America as to what was happening up in Baghdad. At that point, I think it is fair to say the issue really was - I think John Sawers described this to you as the "Baghdad first" policy that, in the end, unless you could secure Baghdad, you were going - you were always going to have difficulties. But I would say - it is interesting, this, when I was getting frequent reports back, and then, I think, as Sir Hilary Synnott told you, actually, I was always very clear with our people out there, "If you have got a real problem, pick up the phone, if necessary, and if you start to get messed around with bureaucracy, come to me directly". I think, when I saw him at the end of February 2004, when he left, he thought it was challenging, but, you know, there was some progress being made and we had to make sure the progress carried on. I don't think this was something I was personally involved in, no. I was more involved at the level, if you like, of say, for example, in September 2003, they asked for additional forces and I was keen to get them going. I don't think I really - I don't think the issues to do with urgent operational requirements really came to me. I think if anybody had come to me and said, "Look, there is an issue and a problem here", and we were having ongoing discussions about the defence budget and so on and so forth within government. If somebody had come to me and said, "I think there is a real problem. We have to deal with it", I would have been straight in there trying to sort it out, but I wasn't aware of that particular issue coming across my desk. Yes, it did, and one of the reasons why we agreed a supplementary provision by the Treasury, I think of 127 million, if I remember rightly, or round about that, at the end of March, was precisely because we were aware we had to ramp up pretty quickly. Now, there was there was an additional problem, which was getting the allocation - the Americans had made a huge allocation for the CPA, the provisional authority up in Baghdad, and we were trying to get that money transferred back down, and I even got involved at one point - I seem to remember that was a Siemens power plant and I got involved in trying to sort out the money being delivered for, but my basic view - I think we spent for DFID - I think, 2003/2004, Iraq was the key country. We spent over 260 million. It was a big commitment that we were giving. Much of that was humanitarian, but there was also money there for reconstruction. Had people come to me again and said, "Look, we need to make an even greater commitment", I would have done so, but I think, to be fair, during that period of time, as people were then assessing a quite different situation, what became clear in time was not a lack of resource, but a lack of security. Absolutely correct, and we focused very much on what we would find and how we would deal with it. Also, there was, of course - I mean, I raised this issue myself several times, you know, how would the Sunni/Shia relationship work out? That was going to be a major part of the problem. You had basically three groups. You had the Kurds up in the north, you had the Sunni, and then down in the south there was predominantly Shia. For that very reason - that was another reason why I wanted the UN closely involved, because I thought they had a better chance of bringing those groups together. It was also a reason why, very early on, we put a lot of effort into getting a sense amongst the different Iraqi groups that they could come together, because one of the things that had happened in Iraq, obviously, was that the Sunni, who were, what, 20 per cent of the population had effectively ruled the country, and so the majority Shia population had been excluded. So this was going to be a huge thing now. They were for the first time going to come positions of power. But we put a lot of focus and work in that, and by and large - you know, one of the extraordinary things about this, from 2003 onwards, is this political process, despite everything continued, and, actually, it was in 2006, as the result of what was an absolutely wicked and deliberate act of bombing the Samarra mosque, that was what started to tip this into a Shia/Sunni issue. Fortunately, in the end, we got back out of it again, but in 2004, down in the south, there were all sorts of issues but we were managing them. There was very much discussion of the Shia/Sunni issue, and we were very well aware of that. What there wasn't - and this, again, is of vital importance and this certainly is a lesson in any situation similar to this - people did not believe that you would have Al-Qaeda coming in from outside and people did not believe that you would end up in a situation where Iran, once, as it were, the threat of Saddam was removed from them, would then try to deliberately destabilise the country, but that's what they did, and there are some very important lessons in that, because what is important also to understand throughout this process, the Iraqi people, as a people, were not in favour of the violence, they were not in favour of sectarianism. As a people, they supported and have supported throughout the political process. Indeed today in Iraq you have now got, for the elections that are coming up, groups who are overtly non-sectarian standing for election, which is a huge thing for the whole of the Middle East and a great thing incidentally. So I think what I think in future you have to be aware of is that if you are dealing with a country where you are likely to get this - as I say, this perversion of the proper faith of Islam as a major element in the equation, you are going to have to prepare for that very carefully. Your troop configuration has got to be prepared for it and you are going to have to be prepared for quite a fight over it. No, they weren't. Look, it was a statement of the obvious. I mean, Britain in a sense, as Iraqis remember, back in the 1920s, were intimately involved with all this. So everybody understood the history of how Iraq had come about, and obviously you had the Kurds, you had the Sunni, and you had the Shia. But the consensus view was you had to watch for the Sunni/Shia violence. That was precisely why you had to construct an inclusive political process. Right from the outset, we tried to deal with that, and I did something else, and I think Jack Straw mentioned this to you in his evidence. I also sent Jack to talk to the Iranians. A very big lesson from this for me was that we tried with the Iranians, tried very hard to reach out, to in a sense make an agreement with them, to give them a strong indication that it wasn't - the American forces were not there, having done Iraq, to move through to Iran or any of the rest of it and one of the most disappointing, but also, I think, most telling aspects of this is that the Iranians, whatever they said, from the beginning, were a major destabilising factor in this situation and quite deliberately. That is a very, very good question. Let me try and answer it. We did ask for an assessment on Iran particularly. Indeed, you will see through the intelligence assessments in 2002, I'm constantly going back and forward - you know, is Iran - I think I asked this again in February 2003: what's the attitude of Iran going to be? The conventional wisdom, if you like, at the time, was that you might get elements of the revolutionary guard playing about, but basically the evidence was that Iran would more or less have a watching brief to see how it would play out but it had no interest in destabilising. No, exactly. That was the point. Because Saddam had been their enemy in the Iran/Iraq war, and, as I say, there were a million casualties in that war, it was the most terrible situation. Precisely because they would be pleased to get rid of Saddam, we thought they would be more amenable. I had actually spoken myself to the President of Iran prior to September 11 when we were trying to get the new resolution on sanctions. I had actually had a telephone conversation with President Khatami at the time. I had gone out of my way to say, "Let's have a new relationship", and so on. So in respect of Iran that was the advice, but we did go into this in some detail. In respect of Al-Qaeda, I think, in retrospect, this was difficult. At the time - and you know, we know so much more about these groups and how they operate now, but, at the time, the single thing people were most determined to prove was, in a sense, they were two separate problems, because the Americans had raised this question of a link between Saddam and Al-Qaeda, and, really, our system in Britain was determined to say, "No, come on, keep the two things separate. We are not saying Saddam had anything to do with September 11", and that was very much how Al-Qaeda were seen. Now, I think - and this is a very interesting point because it is absolutely goes to the 2010 point that I raised earlier. My view is, if we had left Saddam there, and he had carried on, as we said, with the intent to develop these weapons and the know-how and the concealment programme, and the sanctions had gone, I have little doubt myself - but it is a judgment and other people may take a different judgment - that today we would be facing a situation where Iraq was competing with Iran, competing both on nuclear weapons capability and competing more importantly, perhaps, than anything else - competing, as well as the nuclear issue, in respect of support of terrorist groups. Certainly the moment - I mean, I don't know whether there had been any official contact on this at all. I know I hadn't had the discussion with the White House on it. I would, however, say, the moment we were aware of this - John Sawers was, of course, in Baghdad then, and he was on to the case. I think one of the things, you know, that obviously you will do is to look at this de-Ba'athification and disbandment of the army and assess how big a factor it was. I would say it is quite interesting, this. I'm not sure in my own mind about this even now. I think in respect of de-Ba'athification - and I think John Sawers said this to you - it was going to be really difficult to prevent a certain level of de-Ba'athification. The question is: should it have gone down to the level it did? All I would say about that is the pressure - because it is almost impossible for us, I think, to understand how oppressed and repressed the population of Iraq felt. Suddenly they had this freedom. They detested these Ba'athist people. I remember meeting groups of Iraqis before the invasion and they would tell you of the torture chambers and all the rest of it. I know we had the same problem with the Nazi party in Germany after the war. It is a very, very difficult situation, this, and even now - because I got on to President Bush pretty much straight away on this. I think John was actually there at the time of the decision. I feel it is a decision of such moment that it would have been sensible if there had been a major discussion about it. But I would say, to be fair to the Americans, the moment that it happened we raised these issues with them and actually they reacted to it. They amended the decisions very substantially, and this is where I think again I would consult quite carefully with the people who took these decisions on the American side, because I have spoken to people subsequent to this. I think probably it is true it would have been better not to have done the de-Ba'athification and disbanding of the army in that way, but all I say to you is that's a very live debate amongst the people that were there at the time, and - - just to say this: as a result of the conversation I had with George Bush, literally days after this, they were then scaling back. They scaled back further, and in respect of the army, they were always intending to re-recruit and then they corrected this pension problem that they had with the army pretty quickly. So all I would say is I think it is something that you need to take a range of views on. Well, obviously, as time went on through the course of 2003, you know, at the very beginning - you know, others have taken some evidence of our genuine belief about this. At the very beginning, we were constantly, almost daily, getting reports that there was this site or that site and we were trying to direct the armed forces there, but it was a major part of our operation, actually, after 19 March. But obviously, during the course of 2004, it became very difficult to sustain this. I was aware there was a debate within the American system. Did you use the - I think it was the doctrine of overwhelming force or did you have a smaller group of people a smaller force? I think the issue is really for the post-war period. I think you can argue for the actual conflict itself there were sufficient troops. The question is: should you then have changed and had more or different troops later? I think, again, that is a difficult question to answer and there are people who take both sides of that. I think the key thing is this - and, again, this is a major, major part of how any such operation would be done in the future. The force to remove a regime and change the government, if that's what happens, that's the only way you can secure your objectives, and this is the decision we had come to, the only way we could prevent Saddam being a threat was actually to remove him from office - the force that you require to do that is one function and there is one set of arguments that go along that, and you are probably much more expert on this than me. However, what we now know and in any of these situations should know from now on, is that you will be nation building after that and that may require a quite different type of force and it may require more, it may require simply different forces, but it is a different task. Well, I think in respect of the disbanding of the army, I think again - I think - I think it was Mr Slocombe who was dealing with this on behalf of the Americans, and I think his view was that, in a sense, the army melted away and then they tried to re-recruit. I think a huge question here - because security is what went wrong. Sometimes people say, "If you had done the reconstruction quicker or got more underway or something, it would have been a different situation". My view of this is that the very purpose of the people we ended up fighting was to stop the reconstruction. So every time we would repair electricity, they would bomb it, every time we got the oil production going, they would try and sabotage it. Every time we tried to provide better facilities, they would try and wreck it. So the issue is a security issue. Now, I think we had moved beyond what was a debate at the time, which really went something like this - and you probably recall this from 2003 and the early part of 2004, and that was a debate which said, "Look, the Americans are good at war fighting, but they do not do peacekeeping. The British can do both". I think, if we are looking at our own capabilities now, and what we will do in the future, I think it is not as simple as that, actually, and if you look at what General Petraeus did in the end with the surge, it is correct that he had his political dimension, reaching out to the Sunnis and so on, but as the surge began, the American forces suffered even heavier casualties. I mean, they were doing fighting and one of the things that I think - I am afraid we have to learn from this situation, because we face exactly the same situation in Afghanistan - is that, in these circumstances, it is not going to be easy. You do not move to peacekeeping because actually you are facing a situation where your enemy is trying to kill you. It certainly was, yes, and I was involved in discussions with the Americans, with the President and also with Allawi as well, who was taking on the interim administration in Iraq. I mean, I think at the time I was worried the Americans were going in too hard and too heavy, and they made certain changes as a result of the conversations that we were having. If I look back on it now, I'm not sure I was right about it, though. You see, I think the truth is we were reaching out to the Sunni. Indeed, one of the reasons why I could see us having a more challenging situation in the south through into 2005, and it was something we were discussing in the government, was that it would become at some point very clear that the purpose of what we were doing was not to replace a Sunni dictatorship, a minority dictatorship with a Shia majority dictatorship. We actually wanted a genuinely inclusive government. So I have always thought at some point we must be able to persuade the Sunni that we were actually their best chance of participating in the political process. The reality is there were people who were quite determined not to allow that reconciliation to happen. Yes, it was going to be very tough, and one of the central questions - I mean, my view is that the way these terrorists are trying to stop us doing what is right and right by the people of Iraq shouldn't deter us. We should carry on, and, having beaten one tyranny - as one Iraqi put it to me: having beaten the tyranny of Saddam, we should now beat the tyranny of the terrorists. I was certainly of the view that we had to carry on in that endeavour, but you are absolutely right, that was a huge problem, and the interesting thing to me, if you look round the world, it is a problem for all nations in this situation dealing with this new type of terrorism. If you take - because I spend a lot of time out there now, obviously, in the Middle East, with the Israel/Palestine question, it is a constant problem for Israel. They get attacked, they then use great force in retaliating. Before you have gone two weeks, they are the people who have started it all. If you look at the difficulties that India has, or Russia and Chechnya, or - Obviously this wasn't the issue down south, but - Yes, but - I think you have got to look at this question very carefully, because I think I would put it in a different way, and I think, if you look at how the surge actually worked in the end, it worked because you had a - in fact, it really worked for four reasons, the surge. That's my point, in a sense; that if you analyse why it worked then, 2007, and in 2004 it wasn't working, then that's the question: what is the - Absolutely, and what was very clear is, as I say, this influence of Iran on the situation was growing. We debated a lot what to do with Moqtadr Sadr. Did we try and reach out to him? I think we tried to make certain approaches there. Did we try to arrest him? There was an issue there. Would that provoke more violence? This is why these things become really, really difficult. Sorry, I didn't mean to take you out of your time zone when looking at the surge, but the reason I think it is so important, because there is a real lesson out of this, is that - you see, you are bound to take a certain amount of time to win this battle, because, essentially, what happened in Iraq, and I have tried to explain this to people before, is you had one conflict, which was the removal of the Saddam Hussein regime and that was over pretty quickly. You had the aftermath, which was very difficult. But then what started to happen in 2004/2005, and then with full on in 2006, the first half of 2007, is you had a metamorphosis into a different type of conflict, where you were fighting, yes, a certain amount of indigenous insurgency, but with these external factors coming in. In the end, what did we need? We needed four things to defeat this, and two of them take time. One is we needed the political buy-in. The second is we needed to build up Iraqi capability. The third is we needed, as you rightly say, Sir Lawrence, the right troop configuration, and the fourth thing is we needed to be prepared to stick at it and to indicate clearly that we were going to stick at it until it was done. Well, I was shocked and angry, as anyone would be. Shocked because it was wrong, and angry because of the damage I knew it would do. You know, you mentioned earlier the media part of this and Al Jazeera. The truth is we were fighting a constant battle against people utterly misrepresenting us, our motives, what we were trying to do, and obviously these pictures and the abuse of prisoners was going to be vital propaganda for our enemies. I think everybody was taken by surprise, including in the White House. I had actually appointed Ann Clwyd as human rights adviser, and we made a real effort, in fact, to try and say, "Look, things are going to happen differently". So there are no excuses for it. It is completely wrong. The most important thing was that it did damage to our cause. On the other hand, and it is right to say this, and I said this at the time, the activities of a few within the American forces, and, indeed, the British forces, should not take away from the fact that the majority of American and British forces were doing a magnificent job in incredibly difficult circumstances and were doing that job for the Iraqi people and protecting them and helping them. What we did with the Iraqi people was to say, "First of all, we are going to carry on with the political process, because for the first time you have actually been able to elect your government and your officials. You are drawing up a constitution in a proper and decent way". The second thing was to say, "We are going to be with you and we are going to help you defeat this", and the third thing to say - and this is immensely important to this whole argument - when people say, "There were people dying in Iraq", and, you know, the figures, I think the most reliable figures out of the Iraq body count or the Brookings Institute may be 100,000 over this whole period - the coalition forces weren't the ones doing the killing. The ones doing the killing were the terrorists, the sectarians, and they were doing it quite deliberately to stop us making the progress we wanted to make. So my attitude - and I took this line very, very strongly with people - when we say, "Isn't it terrible that the death toll went to 2007, that high?" yes, it is terrible, but the first question to ask is, "Who was killing them?" and this turned out to be precisely the same people that we were trying to fight everywhere and our responsibility was to stick in there and see it through, which eventually happened with the surge, with the Charge of the Knights down in Basra, and today, of course, the situation in Iraq is very, very different and the people are better off and have a decent chance of a proper future. I think that's the evidence that was given - Or in 2003, or 2002, or 2001. By May 2009, that is a different situation, and why? Because we then built up the capacity of the Iraqi forces themselves. Actually, in the end, the British, I think, were particularly with the Iraqi 10 Division. In the end, we managed - and if it hadn't been for the British forces down in Basra making sure that we were acting and helping keep this at bay the entire time, the Charge of the Knights would never have worked, but it did in the end, and if you talk to people about Basra today, there are real improvements there now and it is a completely different situation in security. Likewise, in the rest of Iraq. In the end, we did stick with them, and I agree with you it is our responsibility, but here is the point that I think we have got to get ourselves into in the western world, if I can put it like this, or when we are doing these types of operations: yes, it is our responsibility, but let's be quite clear why we face the difficulty. We face the difficulty because these people were prepared to go and kill any number of completely innocent people in suicide bombings, because, as you know, in the first half of 2004, I think we had 30, in the first half of 2005 that then went up to 200. We should be prepared to take these people on, and the fact that they are prepared to act like this should not be a reason for our not being there or fighting them. We certainly didn't take a cavalier attitude to planning in the UK. What we planned for was what we thought was going to happen. But - and you will consider this, but I just give you my view of this, because, otherwise, I think we will make a mistake in the future in such situations. However much you plan, and whatever forces you have, if you have these elements, AQ on the one side, Iran on the other, who are prepared to destabilise, you are going to be in a tough, long-drawnout, difficult situation, but my point is very simple: the fact that these people, in breach of not just the rules of international law, but humanity, are prepared to do these terrible things in order to frustrate the will of the Iraqi people should not mean we back away from confronting them. We should be there with the Iraqi people, alongside them, as we did and were in the end, in order to make sure that, having been released from Saddam, they were then released from the reign of terror. I do speak to Iraqis, and I spoke to one just a few days back who said to me, "We have changed the certainty of repression for the uncertainty of democratic politics". He said, "It is difficult and challenging, but the progress is extraordinary", and nobody would want to go back to the days when they had no freedom and no opportunity and no hope. So I understand what you are saying, but - and we do have to take our responsibilities seriously in these situations, but we are in exactly the same situation now in Afghanistan, and heaven knows where we will be in the same situation again in the future, and the lesson out of it, in my view, is you have got to be prepared for the long haul and you have got to be prepared to stick it through to the end. It did start in 2003, but I posed the 2010 question earlier and I will pose it again. Well, I was certainly concerned that we were then fighting in two different theatres of operation, but, again, I think the decision actually to go down into Helmand was taken, or began to be taken in 2005. We were told that we were able to do this, and it was right that we did it, and what was actually happening in Iraq was that, unlike the rest of - it all happening in Basra, as I would say it, in the south as opposed to the rest the country, is that the problem in a way was that people were worried that most of the attacks were actually happening on us, on the coalition forces. So our concern was that, over time, we should be building up the Iraqi capability and then that would allow us to draw down. But we were capable of doing the Helmand mission, and, indeed, we wouldn't have done it if weren't. Actually, the suggestion that we did it came from the MoD. Of course, they said it is going to be tough for us, but they said we can do it and we should do it. So in a sense, right at the moment it was difficult in Iraq, we were prepared to make the additional commitment to Afghanistan. We were discussing then what was likely to happen in relation to the politics and the diplomacy, particularly in relation to the military. Now, at a later time, as you know, there were - officials from DFID were involved in the planning meetings. I think - I think the officials were together. It is true that it was at a later time that Clare Short herself joined the Committee. However, having said that, we were in pretty regular correspondence and, as I say, in the end, DFID acquitted itself perfectly well. The problem we had was not a problem that was capable of being cured by DFID. We were also discussing this at a Cabinet level too, and obviously we were in close touch with the Treasury and so on. Right at that moment, the single most important areas were diplomacy and were the issues to do with military planning. Look, I know that much has been made of: well, these were ad hoc committee meetings with a small "a" and a small "h", rather than with a large "A" and a large "H". The key thing was to get the key players together so you could have a proper, frank discussion and take the decisions necessary. That's really what we did, both before the invasion and afterwards. Sure, and I think I said in response to the Butler Inquiry that, you know, in future, there is a case for having a specially constituted committee. All I would say to you is that we did have the key players and there was a constant interaction with government on the key issues. Insofar as we were predicting what we would find, we made provision for it and the relationship between myself and Jack Straw, Geoff Hoon, the politicians, but also the Chief of Defence Staff, were close. I mean, we were in close interaction the entire time, and the main bulk of this was going to be done in the first instance by the military. Now, it is correct that, as we got into late 2002, early 2003, DFID became a bigger part of the picture. Clare said she wanted to come to the meetings. That was fair enough. That then happened. The issue, however, that DFID was focused on was the humanitarian side, and, to be fair to them, they did a very good job of it. We had, I think - I think it is 20 - I think there was - - 25 pre-invasion Cabinet discussions of Iraq, and then there were ad hoc ministerial discussions, I think 28 of those meetings. There was a constant interaction and people would describe - it wasn't just a sort of formal Cabinet discussion, Jack Straw would take people through the information that we had. There was an immense amount going on inside the MoD, inside the Foreign Office, actually inside DFID as well, and I really don't think any of the members of the Cabinet at the time felt they weren't involved or felt they couldn't challenge. Indeed, Robin Cook did, and Robin and I disagreed about it in the end. So obviously, there are these issues to do with the nature of the meetings that were held, but I was in an almost constant interaction for 2002 and 2003 with members of the Cabinet. I really do, actually, yes. Nobody in the Cabinet was unaware of the - what the whole issue was about. It was the thing running throughout the whole of the political mainstream at the time. There were members of the Cabinet who would challenge and disagree, but most of them agreed. It was the same with Parliament. I was subject to constant numbers of people telling me, "You shouldn't do this, you shouldn't do that, you should do it differently", and so on, and in relation to the planning afterwards, I mean, whatever else - whatever differences Clare Short and I may have had from time to time, the one thing I would never accuse her of being is backward in coming forward. So there was a huge - all the time, interaction, as I say, between people on the very issues. I think the very first paper we got on this back in March, or the clutch of papers we got in March 2002, which were seen obviously by Jack - I mean, the legal paper was provided by Jack Straw's department and by Geoff Hoon as well, who is, I think, fully aware of all this. I mean, people had the basic legal framework. Now, I think it is perfectly good for Peter Goldsmith, as the Attorney General, on his own volition, if he thought somebody was saying something that couldn't be justified or was unwise in legal terms, if he got on the phone and said, "Don't do it", or wrote them a note saying, "Come back into line on this", which I think they did. I don't think it would have made a great deal of difference to have had him there at Cabinet. What he needed to be able to do was be in a position feeling sufficiently confident, which he did, to be able to intervene and say, "I don't agree". I think he said that about the particular opinion he gave at the end of July, and it wasn't so much, as I said earlier, that it wasn't welcome, it was, you know, I was dealing with an already difficult situation. Now I had another issue to take account of. I had to take account of it, rightly, and, incidentally, he was completely right to do it, because it made a big difference to the way we approached 1441 and the resolution there, but I don't think it would have made - look, I'm very happy to talk about how, for example, you know, you might do some of these things differently now, but I honestly don't think having Peter at the Cabinet meeting would have made a difference. What did make a difference was his having the confidence to be able to say, as he should, as an independent attorney for the government, to pick up the phone and - even to the Prime Minister, which he did, saying, "This is what you can say and this is what you can't". Well, I think in respect of the legal opinion, Baroness, I think that the key thing really was this: the Cabinet weren't interested in becoming part of the legal debate, they just wanted to know, "Is the Attorney General saying it is lawful or it is not?" I think in respect of these other issues, there were actual debates about this. There was a debate, for example, in January 2003, if I recollect it, that was not just about the diplomatic issues, but specifically on the humanitarian and aftermath questions in Cabinet. I think Andrew Turnbull explained this to you. The whole purpose of having the Attorney there at the Cabinet was so that he could answer anybody's questions about it. The broader implications in terms of whether it was right or wrong to do it? That was, in a sense, the purpose of the Cabinet discussion, I think, and it is perfectly - the legal issues were one aspect of this. But I think, once the members of the Cabinet - I mean, the members of the Cabinet were really focused on the politics, and indeed even Robin Cook, his attitude was, if you get a second resolution, then I'm with you, but if you can't, then, politically, I think this is too difficult. So, you know, we were very focused on those political as well as legal questions. I think they were weighing the risks up for the country, but I don't think, in respect of the law, as it were - I don't think members of the Cabinet wanted to have a debate with - I mean, Peter was there and could have answered any questions they had, but their basic question to him was: is there a proper legal basis for this or not and his answer was, "Yes." Now, we had actually said - and this was the reason why we had Peter there and I think in any future situation it is sensible to have the Attorney there. But in a sense we offered him up; he was the lawyer there to talk about it. I think that there could be but I would say in this situation, since in a way March 2002 was the time when you set the first framework for this, the legal advice was one of the key things we asked for, and we got it, and that legal advice - and it is interesting to go back and look at it - it was legal advice that was saying you needed a fresh resolution, and one of the reasons why we went down the path was to give a fresh resolution. One of the things - and this was part of the debate that happened later - was that I felt we got the fresh resolution, so why is there still a legal problem, but then I was told what the problem was. Well, I think it is unavoidable in a situation where it is that controversial and divisive and it is that - you know, that open to challenge. You see, there actually could have been a major debate about Kosovo and legality; there could have been. There wasn't because in the end most people went along with the action; they agreed with what we were doing. The truth is that the law and the politics follow each other quite closely, and I think, necessarily in this situation, where we were setting our strategic objectives. You know, we had this strong belief and, as I say, this is my belief now too, that this threat had to be dealt with with a certain amount of urgency. We had our alliance with the United States of America and so on and all the issues to do with Saddam, and then obviously, at the same time, as you are proceeding and strategy is evolving, diplomacy is evolving, you are looking at the issues to do with legality. In the pre-war part we had the Ad Hoc Group on Iraq of officials, which met from September onwards, and that included all the relevant departments. I was chairing the ad hoc ministerial discussions, and as I say, I think we had 28 of those meetings. And then afterwards we had the War Cabinet and then the DOP meetings, and then Jack Straw became the effective Chairman of the ministers and the officials driving forward policy from that front. There wasn't an issue really at any stage of this with people not feeling they were part of this, apart from the one issue to do with Clare and the ad hoc committee, which, as I say, was resolved in, I think, early 2003. Yes, I think one of the questions - and I think this has been raised in some evidence to you - is, again, if we knew then what we know now, would you want perhaps to put a specific Cabinet minister in charge of this? All these things are worth looking at. The only thing I would say to you is that we were, partly through my own personal involvement but also because you had Mike Boyce and the Chiefs of Staff Committee, you had the officials meeting, you had David Manning very closely involved in this - I can't really think - and I think Andrew Turnbull said this to you in his evidence - that there was a machinery of government problem, in the sense that if we had had a different machinery, we would have acted differently. I don't think, but that's a judgment. We would have entirely re-evaluated our strategy had, as I say - and I'm just using this as a shorthand - Saddam Hussein done a Gaddafi, had he said, "I'm finished with all this, I want to join the international community on proper terms." But he didn't, and what he did - and this is where, as I say, the Iraq Survey Group - unfortunately, people have only looked at one part of their findings and not the other part of their findings. He never had any intention of complying because he had the intention, once he got sanctions out of the way, of restarting it again. Absolutely. The reason why we were in a constant iteration very quickly after the conflict was because of what we were finding, and then, as I say, there was this metamorphosis of the whole struggle, really, and battle, when the AQ and Iran elements became uppermost, and then it really did change into a different type of fight, and one of the interesting things, for example - I mean, Kimberly Kagan does this on her book on the surge and it is important because in the end that is what worked. What nobody foresaw was that Iran would actually end up supporting AQ. The conventional wisdom was these two are completely different types of people because Iran is Shia, the Al-Qaeda people are Sunni and therefore, you know, the two would never mix. What happened in the end was that they did because they both had a common interest in destabilising the country, and for Iran I think the reason they were interested in destabilising Iraq was because they worried about having a functioning majority Shia country with a democracy on their doorstep, and for Al-Qaeda they knew perfectly well their whole mission was to try and say the West was oppressing Islam. It is hard to do that if you replace tyrannical governments with functioning democracies. I don't doubt you could have had different machineries, but we did have a machinery of government that worked, and worked effectively, in order to analyse the problems we were likely to face and how we would deal with them. And as I say, I think no doubt there are other ways that it can be done but we had - I think, when you look back now - and I have just said to you earlier. For example, if you want to look at maybe putting a specific Cabinet minister in charge of this, there are all sorts of things that, if you knew then what you know now, you would do differently; I have been through the whole reconstruction piece. But, in terms of what we knew at that time, we had a machinery of government that was perfectly adequate. There were 25 separate Cabinet meetings, 28 ad hoc committee meetings, regular weekly meetings of the officials. Now, you could put them with a capital "A" and a capital "H", rather than a small "a" and a small "h", but I don't think it would have made a difference to the essential decision-making. It is too early to say right now whether the Iraqi democracy will take root and will function effectively, although, as I think John Jenkins and Frank Baker said to you, there are really hopeful signs. And just to say some of the things that I think are taking place in Iraq today, if you look, for example, at the electricity, you look at income per head, which is several times what it was under Saddam, you look at now the money that is being spent on infrastructure, I think, yes, it was a very, very difficult fight indeed, it was always going to be difficult once these external factors came into play of AQ and Iran, but, sure, when you go into a nation-building situation in the future, I think we will be far better prepared and better educated than we were then. I would just give one - if we are talking about was it worth it in terms of the Iraqis themselves, if you look at the latest information from the Brookings Institute and the polls that they are doing about the right direction, wrong direction for their country, they are actually upbeat about the future. You know, if you look at whether they believe that security and services are getting better, a majority of them think they are, despite all the trouble, despite the fact these terrorists carry on. Let me just give you one example of where I think you can see both the nature, since we are talking about how is it for Iraqis - because the Iraqis were themselves less worried about the issues to do with United Nations and so on; they were worried about their country and the oppression. Just focus for a moment on what the Saddam Hussein regime was like. In 2000 and 2001 and 2002 they had a child mortality rate of 130 per 1,000 children under the age of five, worse than the Congo. That was despite the fact that Saddam had as much money as he wanted for immunisation programmes and medicines for those children. That equates to roughly about 90,000 deaths under the age of five a year. The figure today is not 130, it is 40. That equates to about 50,000 young people, children, who, as a result of a different regime that cares about its people - that's the result that getting rid of Saddam makes. And you can talk to Iraqis, of course, who will say to you, some of them, particularly those from the Sunni side still worried about whether they will be able to come into the politics - and some of them may say, "Well, I don't believe it was worth it." But I think if you ask the majority of Iraqis today, "Would you really prefer, with all the challenges that lie ahead, to be back under Saddam?" I think you would get a pretty overwhelming answer to that question. I mean, I have said some of the things that I think are lessons that can be learned about nation-building. I think you have got to look very carefully at what type of forces you require because there will be a security situation that you face, a challenging security situation. I also think you have really got to look at the issue to do with the nature of this threat from Al-Qaeda on the one hand, Iran on the other, and the impact that that will have, not just on Iraq but potentially in different arenas right round the Middle East region and beyond. I feel - of course, I had to take this decision as Prime Minister and it was a huge responsibility then, and there is not a single day that passes by that I don't reflect and think about that responsibility, and so I should. But I genuinely believe that if we had left Saddam in power, even with what we know now, we would still have had to have dealt with him, possibly in circumstances where the threat was worse and possibly in circumstances where it was hard to mobilise any support for dealing with that threat. I think we live in a completely new security environment today. I thought that then, I think that now. It is why - I have said this to you a number of times today - I take a very hard, tough line on Iran today, and many of the same arguments apply. In the end it was divisive, and I'm sorry about that and I tried my level best to bring people back together again, but if I'm asked whether I believe we are safer, more secure, that Iraq is better, our own security is better with Saddam and his two sons out of power and out of office than in office, I indeed believe that we are, and I think in time to come, if Iraq becomes, as I hope and believe that it will, the country that its people want to see, then we can look back, and particularly our armed forces can look back, with an immense sense of pride and achievement in what they did. Responsibility but not a regret for removing Saddam Hussein. I think that he was a monster, I believe he threatened, not just the region but the world, and in the circumstances that we faced then, but I think even if you look back now, it was better to deal with this threat, to deal with it, to remove him from office, and I do genuinely believe that the world is safer as a result. I know sometimes, because this happens out in the region, sometimes people will say to me, "Well, Saddam was a brake on Iran". Let's be clear, there is another view of foreign policy in this instance, which is the way, if we had left Saddam in place, he would have controlled Iran better. I really think it is time we learned, as a matter of sensible foreign policy, that the way to deal with one dictatorial threat is not to back another, that actually the best answer to what is happening in Iran is to allow the Iraqi people the freedom and democratic choice that we enjoy in countries like ours. No.