Sometimes we feel as though dumbing down Scottish politics until the Times’ political reporter Kenny Farquharson can understand it is our full-time job. It’s something we have to do quite a lot, whether it’s reminding him what manifestos look like, or pointing out that protecting EVERY child in Scotland from harm is actually a good thing, or even basic stuff like explaining what the SNP’s position on Scottish independence is. Farquharson has taken that limp zinger and dressed it up in the conceit of imagining himself as an SNP voter, by way of what we suspect he feels is rapier-sharp satire. So we start off still on “They’re both unions so they must be the same!”, an argument elegantly skewered as the self-evident drivel it is by our own Doug Daniel just a few days ago. That’s 372 words knocked out now, a third of the way through the contractually-required wordcount without actually saying anything. For some reason at this point Farquharson gets rather surprisingly bewildered about the difference between a campaign’s goals and its tactics. But that’s okay, because it helps push the word count up to 499. Nearly halfway done! Finally we reach the point at which poor Kenny loses the thread of the argument. Because it’s not Brexit that provides the notional grounds for a second indyref. As even the dogs in the street know, it’s a Brexit that Scotland has voted against. Scotland has no possible legitimate grievance if it leaves the EU having voted to do so. In that event, democracy would clearly have prevailed and nationalists would have no defensible choice but to accept it. It’s not rocket science. UK politicians from the Prime Minister himself down have noted that only a Remain vote in Scotland being overridden by the rest of the UK voting Leave would constitute a crisis. But it matters not, because our hero’s now managed to churn out 712 hard-fought words and is speeding towards his conclusion. But he still needs some padding if he’s going to fill the space, so he embarks on a small diversion based around the curious premise that it’s in some way weird for the SNP to want to have a second referendum under timing and circumstances that would give them the best chance of winning it, rather than being rushed into one when polls were still against them. But we’re staggering towards the finish line like an exhausted marathon runner. Nicola Sturgeon’s position on a Brexit-triggered second indyref has, as far as we’re aware, never once been anything other than what it is now – namely that it’d be a possibility but not the preferred ideal. But these leaden-footed zombie steps get us to 971 words. Come on! A second independence referendum within three years is of course a radically different proposition from a first one in three HUNDRED years. But let’s pretend we don’t see that. We only have eyes for the tape now. Maybe nobody will notice, thinks Farquharson, if I just flat-out cheat at this point and get on a skateboard of lies for the last few yards. We’ll try to make this so simple even a Unionist hack can grasp it. Nicola Sturgeon is in the first instance telling her supporters to vote Remain on its own merits, because she believes that Scotland is better off in the EU. And she believes that’s the case whether Scotland is in the UK or not. Wait. Perhaps we need to visualise this, as if we were talking to a slightly slow-witted child. If you’re on a ship, you don’t want it to sink. Being in a lifeboat isn’t as good as being on a safely floating vessel that you’re steering yourself, but it’s better than being in the water, or trapped on a Titanic some other idiot is piloting towards an iceberg. A thumping Remain vote is Scotland’s lifeboat. Nicola Sturgeon doesn’t want to have to use it (she wants to sail on to her ultimate destination), but she’d rather have it there than not. She’d rather have a second indyref sooner than she really wants it than drown in an icy sea. She’s telling her supporters to vote for having a lifeboat. And if even that hasn’t dumbed it down enough for Kenny Of The Times, we give up. Yesterday we reported on a rather weird Scotland on Sunday poll that the newspaper reported last month, which pollster ICM seemed to want nothing to do with and whose results weren’t made public until weeks after they should have been, and only under sustained pressure from this website. Here’s another extract from the paper’s coverage. Now, that’s some pretty shabby and misleading editorialising right from the off by the paper’s super-Unionist political editor Tom Peterkin. The SNP had pledged to replace the tax in their 2007 manifesto, and attempted to do so as a minority administration, but were foiled by the combined opposition of the Unionist parties voting to block proposals for a local income tax. The Nats accepted defeat and the pledge wasn’t repeated in the 2011 or 2016 manifestos. But the poll is even dodgier than that. Because this, rather remarkably, is the question respondents were asked and the choice of just two answers. That’s not even so much a leading question as a riddle. The options available have basically nothing to do with each other – respondents are being asked “Do you agree with this specific change to the system, or is the whole system garbage?”, two propositions which are in no way exclusive. There’s no conflict whatsoever between wanting council tax replaced and thinking the rich should pay a slightly higher proportion of it, and asking people to choose which thing they agree with more is a bit like saying “Was Hitler bad or do you like apples?” Frankly, readers, we’re starting to understand why ICM were reluctant to admit having anything to do with the poll. They just ask the questions people pay them to ask, but being associated with such an absurd, twisted and transparent mess can’t be good for anyone’s credibility or brand image. Alert readers may have noticed that we tend to slack off a bit at the weekend these days. There’s no point burning ourselves out with busywork at a time when there’s not very much going on in Scottish politics (certainly not in terms of independence, at any rate), and weekend traffic is always lower anyway. So we’ve only just now got round to taking a proper look at something the online Yoon community and punditariat was getting itself very excited about on Saturday. And it’s a fascinating piece of work. The article in question asserts unequivocally that a Twitter graphic relating to fracking, which had been tweeted by an SNP MSP, had been “debunked” by an “expert”. Let’s examine that claim. The “expert” in question is one Ewan MacLeod, a solicitor at what the Herald calls “leading” Edinburgh-based law firm Shepherd & Wedderburn. “Leading” is one of those meaningless puff words, like “respected”, that newspapers use to inflate the standing of someone they want readers to believe. The Herald offers no metric or evidence to support its use. We’re sure Mr MacLeod is indeed a skilled practitioner in his field, though his CV is a bit sparse – his LinkedIn page says he graduated in law from Dundee University in 1995, then joined S&W 11 years later in 2006, with no other work listed in between. It’s not until we get more than 200 words into the story that we actually hear from Mr MacLeod, and even then it’s not in the form of a direct quote. The Herald simply tells us what its interpretation of his words is. Saying that the Scottish Government is correct to continue with its current policy of a moratorium, and correct to say that it could face a legal challenge if it adopted a ban instead, is a pretty bad start for a “debunking”. But it’s the last line that’s interesting, where the Herald tells us that Mr MacLeod’s assessment is that there’d be “no prospect” of a legal challenge giving companies the right to frack in Scotland. “The government’s ban on fracking would be removed.” Or in other words, companies WOULD win the right to start fracking if the Scottish Government were to adopt a ban instead of a moratorium – which is of course the exact claim made in what the Herald calls “the discredited image”. As far as we can see, then, the text of the image is entirely correct, and is in no way contradicted by Ewan MacLeod’s comments. Mr Macleod agrees that a ban could be overturned in court, and that a moratorium is the only policy which can prevent fracking in the meantime. It’s a very weird definition of “debunking” and “discredited”. Not a single word of the image has been disproved, and the factual parts of it – leaving aside the lurid guff about Scotland being left “a wasteland” etc – have in fact been confirmed. We’re going to skip over the fact that these aren’t even the “SNP’s claims”, as the Herald headline asserts. The image wasn’t created by the SNP, and the MSP who tweeted it, Gail Ross, didn’t endorse it, offering it up only for discussion. We’re not sure how Ewan MacLeod feels about this apparent misrepresentation of his words. We’ve dropped him a line and we’ll let you know if we hear back. In the meantime, readers, continue to read newspapers on the presumption that the headline is almost always a lie. Readers, we’re honestly starting to believe that the entire Scottish media is some sort of elaborate Jeremy-Beadle-style prank. Because the alternative – that they actually mean this stuff seriously – is just too bizarre and horrible to contemplate. The motion passed in Holyrood yesterday was meaningless, and it only passed – very narrowly – because the SNP abstained on it. It’s in no way binding, and all decisions on whether to allow fracking or not will still rest with the Scottish Government. Had Nicola Sturgeon told her MSPs to vote against the motion, it would have been crushed by a margin of around 60 votes. So it takes a spectacular reach to suggest that her decision not to do so represents her striking a blow against herself. Rather impressively, The Times clears even that high bar of nonsensical drivel. The words “in defiance of” are having to work quite incredibly hard there. The Scottish Government’s moratorium is designed to be a de facto ban, because an actual ban would almost certainly attract a legal challenge like the one that’s currently holding up the implementation of minimum pricing on alcohol. In other words, having a moratorium rather than a ban is a move designed to ENSURE that fracking stays banned until evidence can be assembled that would defeat such a challenge. If yesterday’s motion had any power – which it doesn’t – it would make fracking MORE likely, not less. The notion that “pressure” has been exerted by the vote is such a jaw-droppingly moronic flat-out lie that it makes us want to cry a little bit. The SNP is opposed to fracking, but if for some inexplicable reason it decided it wanted to allow it, it could pass any such legislation with a huge majority, as noted above, because the Tories enthusiastically back it and the Parliamentary arithmetic would therefore be in the region of 94-34. In short, then: yesterday’s vote was meaningless, but notionally committed the Scottish Government to do what it’s already doing now, has been doing for some months, and wants to keep doing. If that’s the biggest blow Nicola Sturgeon has to deal with in this Parliament, she’ll be having a five-year party. The Scottish press thinks its readers are imbeciles. There’s been a lot of chat on social media recently commenting on what seems to be a rather low-key approach to the Tory election fraud story. Despite having the potential to cast the result of the UK general election into doubt, with dozens of Tory MPs under suspicion of being elected illegally, press coverage – particularly on the BBC – has been noticeably thin on the ground compared to, say, the days and weeks of sustained, new-content-free reporting on Michelle Thomson’s business affairs or Stewart Hosie and Angus MacNeil’s love lives. We learned very recently, of course, that the police still haven’t even spoken to Ms Thomson, over eight months after the allegations came to light. But even we were startled by this: Yes, if you type “Tory election fraud” into the BBC website, the top result is for some unfathomable reason an article about Hosie and MacNeil, who are neither Tories nor under investigation for any kind of fraud. Indeed, the current Tory election fraud story is nowhere to be found at all – the next most recent item on the page is from 2012 and about the Liberal Democrats. We’ll leave readers to draw their own conclusions. But we did, of course, check what happened if you entered “Michelle Thomson” into the same search box. The results are below. Six separate stories have been wrung out of a single allegation concerning a single MP, over events which happened long before she was elected, and which would have no significant bearing on anything even if she was found to have committed a crime. Yet even when you finally manage to track down the fraud story on the BBC website (by using the term “Conservative election fraud”), you only get three articles – even though the allegations span several separate police investigations by up to 19 forces in different areas, each of which justifies fresh reporting – before you’re back to 2012. Only seven Tory – sorry, Conservative – MPs would have to be found guilty for the government to lose its majority. At least 29 are under suspicion. That’s plainly a far, far bigger story than the possibility of one opposition MP having technically broken the law to get mortgages. A crime which, unless payments are missed, is victimless. So it does seem a fair complaint that the BBC have covered the latter twice as much as the former. But under the state broadcaster’s famed accountability, we’re sure there’ll be a satisfactory response along any minute now.